Staff Correspondent Davangere: The Karnataka Rajya Anganawadi Workers’ and Assistants’ Federation has resented the ‘inaction’ of the Government to fulfil their long-standing demands which include treating them on par with Government employees and extending to them benefits such as minimum wages, employees state insurance, gratuity, provident fund and pension. The federation will lay siege to the Deputy Commissioner’s office on January 17 and stage ‘black flag demonstration’ when the Chief Minister arrives at Harpanahalli on January 24 to press their demands. General secretary of federation’s Harpanahalli wing P. Jayalakshmi and State convenor Hosahalli Mallesh told presspersons on Thursday that there were over one lakh anganwadi workers and assistants in the State who were involved in overall development of children besides being involved in helping people with disabilities, survey of Devadasis, AIDS patients, cattle and turberculosis-affected people. They said the anganwadi workers also involved in formation of Self Help Groups, enrolment of births and deaths and such other works without being paid any additional remuneration. “In fact, for all development works and implementation of schemes, services of anganwadi workers are being availed”, they said adding that in turn the Government had failed to reward them proportionately. The workers said that they were being paid an amount of Rs. 1,700 a month as remuneration which does not even fetch them two square meals a day as the prices of all essential commodities have gone up. They demanded that anganwadi workers should be paid remuneration of Rs. 6,000 a month and anganwadi assistants should be paid Rs. 3,000 a month. In spite of the failure of the Government to fulfil their demands, anganwadi workers said they continued to discharge their duties out of humanitarian consideration keeping in mind the welfare of young children and pregnant women. They said that the Government must not mistake their goodness to weakness and continue to neglect them.