Students of Mathematics listen to a lecture at Chidambaram Pillai College for Women in Tiruchi.    The Department of Mathematics, Chidambaram Pillai College for Women, Mannachanallur, organised a seminar on ‘Boundary Layer Theory’ recently. Delivering a lecture, Valarmathi, Reader and Head In-Charge, Department of Mathematics, Bishop Heber College, dwelt on the application of the theory in aerodynamics. The Managing Trustee A. Loganathan presided. The Department of Commerce conducted a programme on ‘Career Guidance’ for final year UG and PG students. K. Parthasarathy, Director, IECD, Bharathidasan University, said spoken English, General Knowledge, familiarity with computers and leadership qualities were the requisites to land in a good job or even to become entrepreneurs. K. Sekar, Educational Advisor of the College, offered felicitations. At another function organised by the College in association with the Red Cross Society of India, P. Ambika, an activist of the Society, highlighted the need to create awareness on AIDS. The Principal S. Gangadevi also addressed the students. Hallmark Business School organised a seminar on ‘Marketing in the Context of Global Meltdown’ earlier this month. In his key note address, R. Nandagopal, Director, PSG Institute of Management, traced the process of industrialisation since Independence and explained how the mixed economy model has helped the country to cushion the effects of global meltdown. R. Shanthi, Faculty of Madras University, highlighted the impact of e-marketing in the current scenario. She explained how ‘brick and mortar’ stores and e-marketing portals such as Amazon.com played complementary roles. P. Selvaraj, Chairman of J.J. College of Engineering, and the Chairman of Hallmark Business School R. Krishnamurthy also addressed the students. Mr. Krishnamurthy announced institution of Dr. P. Selvaraj Award for Best Outstanding Student on the occasion. E. Ramasamy, Former Director of Technical Education, delivered the valedictory address. The Economics Association of St. Joseph’s College organised a special lecture on ‘security analysis’ recently. Saravanapandi from ICFAI explained the structure of stock market and the important instruments which are traded in the stock exchange like equity shares, government bonds, derivatives, foreign exchange and commodity. He explained the role and meaning of primary market, secondary market and other financial institutions in share market and also explained the significance of Sensex, Nifty etc. He gave vital tips to invest safely in the stock market and prompted students to be traders or investors. The Head of the Department of Economics, G. Gnanasekaran presided. The Computer Science Engineering Association of the Jayaram College of Engineering and Technology, Pagalavadi, organised a two-day workshop on ‘laptop usage’ for the Headmasters of various government schools of Thuraiyur and Musiri taluk. The Headmasters were trained on fundamentals, Microsoft word, mocrosoft excel, power point and internet at various sessions. The Chief Educational Officer, K. Swaminathan delivered the valedictory address and the Principal, P. Ravikumar offered felicitations. The Department of English, Pavendar Bharathidasan College of Arts and Science, Mathur, conducted a seminar on ‘how to improve your vocabulary’ for the final year students. The Director of the college, B. S. Prasanna Priyadarshini, presided over the inaugural. The Reader, Department of English, Periyar E. V. R. College, T. Jayakumar, in his key-note address gave tips on how to improve active and passive vocabulary through various methods and also easy ways to enhance the word power. The NSS unit of the Kurinji College of Arts and Science and the Vasan Eye Hospital jointly organised a free eye screening camp at the college premises in the city recently. The Principal of the college, K. Santhanam presided and the vice-president of the College Committee, A. K. K. Ravichandran inaugurated the camp. Over 1,000 students and the teachers of the college were screened at the camp. The M. A. M. College of Engineering in association with the National Institute of Technical Teacher Training and Research (NITTTR), Chennai, organised a week-long short term training programme on ‘instructional design and delivery’ for the benefit of the faculty members. The objective of the programme was to highlight the need for effective teaching and various issues in instructional design and delivery. The Director of the College, V. Shanmuganathan inaugurated the programme. The sessions were handled by the Director of NITTTR, B. G. Barki, Professor of Civil Engineering, NITTTR, Chennai, T. Jagathrakshakan, Assistant Professor and course coordinator, Educational Media Centre, NITTTR, E. S. M. Suresh. The entire programme focussed on topics like principles of learning, planning for teaching, instructional methods, basics of evaluation and micro teaching etc. The Principal of the M. A. M. College of Engineering and Technology, Kumar, and the Principal, M. A. M. Polytechnic College, C. Rajagopalan gave away certificates to the participants at the valediction. Triple Fiesta — the festival of religious harmony was held at the Cauvery College for Women. The Principal, V. Sujatha presided and the secretary of the College Governing Council, rendered the inaugural address. The festival commenced with the rendering of verses from the Holy Books – Bhagavad Gita, Bible and Quran. Songs symbolizing the festivities of Christmas, Pongal and Ramzan were rendered by the students. S. Geetha spoke on ‘symbolism of Pongal’. The lecturer in Tamil, Jamal Mohamed College, W. Mohamed Yunus, delivered a lecture on ‘significance of Ramzan and Bakrid’. The Principal of the Kalai Kaveri College of Fine Arts, Sr. Margaret Basin, gave the Christmas and New Year message. All the three speakers observed that none of the religions preached violence. The students took an oath against terrorism. Sr. Margaret Basin, honoured Vinothini, a final year B. Com student, who has been conferred the title ‘Natiya Sudaroli’ by Tamil Isai Sangam. The president of the College Governing Council, M. Jayaraman offered felicitations. CONTRIBUTED BY SYED MUTHAHAR SAQAF AND R. KRISHNAMOORTHY