Staff Reporter GUNTUR: Media could play a pro-active role in ending the discrimination being shown to HIV/AIDS affected persons by publishing inspiring stories and articles on denial of health care, marital rights, employment and family support, speakers observed at the District Media Consultation on HIV/AIDS and NACP- 111 held here on Saturday. Additional DMHO B. Rama Devi, representatives from Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), media personnel and representatives of various NGOs shared their views and experiences over the current programmes. At the end of day-long consultations, they agreed that there was a need to scale up the medical and community services, improve the quality of health care, disseminate information on recent advances in the treatment of HIV/AIDS in rural areas and play the role of a watch dog on various intervention programmes being taken up by the Government and the NGOs effectively. Representatives of NGOs and APSACS agreed to conduct media tours to enable broad study on various issues, including communities, ART centres in various parts of the State. The Additional DM&HO said that the extension of the ART centres is on the cards and an ART centre at Tenali would be set up shortly. She added that there were proposals to start providing second line ART drugs to affected persons and highlighted various points in the National Aids Control Programme-111. Advocacy expert from United Kingdom, Lizjoles said that media in India has done an enormous service in writing about the issues relating to HIV/AIDS and said that media personnel should keep themselves abreast of various recent studies and developments in treating the infection. Journalists could also write about the support-systems being provided to HIV/AIDS affected persons, the role of State in integrating the affected into the main stream etc. Senior Journalist from Vijayawada, Ch. Satish shared his experiences in writing about MSMs, while representatives of NGOs appealed to media to be more sensitive while reporting stories on HIV/AIDS affected persons. The INP+ coordinator Jagadish, Seeds director Roshan Kumar, journalist Naren were present.