Time to celebrate: Students of Ideal Degree College for Women, Dilsukhnagar, giving a dance performance during the 20th annual day celebrations of their college. (below) Students of G. Pulla Reddy College of Pharmacy handing over a cheque to an official of the Hyderabad Council of Human Welfare.    Colourful cultural events marked the 20th annual day celebrations of Ideal Degree College for Women, Dilsukhnagar, held at Ravindra Bharati. Founder President of Lok Satta Party Dr. Jayaprakash Narayan who was the chief guest at the function said that the right education imparts a clear understanding of various concepts, promotes logical thinking and improves communications skills. “True education teaches not only how to make a living but how to live as well,” he said. Classical dances, skits and Miss Ideal contest were some of the events organised at the function. The college’s magazine was also released and prizes distributed to winners of various competitions at the event. Member of Legislative Council Dr. K. Nageshwar and college principal Shashidhar Reddy were also present on the occasion. Yogendra Kalavalapalli The budding pharmacists wrote the right prescription and it was appreciated by their teachers, peers and juniors. The final year students of B.Pharmacy course of G. Pulla Reddy College of Pharmacy bid farewell to their alma mater with a difference. They pooled in Rs. 12,000 and donated the same to an orphanage managed by Hyderabad Council of Human Welfare. The cheque was handed over the orphanage during the annual day celebrations. Praneet Kumar, who was involved in collecting the contributions said, “It is a noble initiative from the outgoing students. It is a reminder to every one of us of making difference to our society.” The N.S.S unit of Badruka College of Commerce bagged three prizes at the National Integration Camp held recently in New Delhi. The camp organised by Jamia Milia Islamia University was attended by nearly 150 delegates from different States of the country. The camp comprised of daily lectures by eminent persons who inspired the delegates with their excellent speeches on subjects like communal harmony, basic Indian identity, HIV/AIDS, peace and brotherhood among all Indians, terrorism etc. As part of the camp, competitions were conducted in various events. Badruka College team consisting of Avinash & Sameer Dattani bagged the first prize in debate; second prize in Group Song while P. Sunita won the third prize in classical dance. R. Ravikanth Reddy in Hyderabad Focus of mind is like spread of sun rays in all directions. It becomes powerful only when it concentrates on a target, said Swami Aunpamananda, Director of Vivekananda Institute of Languages, Ramakrishna Math. He was addressing students of J.B.R. Engineering College at a function held on the occasion of Vivekananda Jayanti, organised by Nirman, forum of students of the college. He said believing in one’s own capabilities and achieving goals is an important message from the life of Swami Vivekananda. Swami said attaining higher qualifications without character is dangerous to society. Reaching out to mankind and serving society should be the outcome of education, he said. Chairman and secretary of J.B. Group of Institutions J. Bhaskar Rao, J.V. Krishna Rao and college principal Raghavendra were present on the occasion. in Hyderabad The Department of Information Technology and Entrepreneurship Development Cell of VR Siddhartha Engineering College organised a workshop on ‘Entrepreneurship and opportunities’, here recently. District Industries Centre general manager Sudhakar and Prof. Rajesh Jampala spoke on the opportunities for young entrepreneurs. Principal K. Mohana Rao, IT Head of the Department Sushma, coordinator Vijaya Babu and others were present. The PG Department of Business Administration of Gudlavalleru Engineering College will organise a two-day national workshop on pedagogy on January 30 and 31. The objective is to redefine the task of management education. Case presentations, group discussions, role plays, conceptual lectures, experience sharing with faculty and other activities will be take up as part of this. The PVP Siddhartha Institute of Technology, Kanuru, organised a programme to mark the 113th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Principal K. Srinivasu exhorted the students to imbibe the spirit of Netaji’s ideals like patriotic fervour, selfless service and dedication to people. The young generation should acquire leadership qualities, he added. Administrative officer Ratakonda Madhava Rao, faculty and others were present. Ch. Harish Chandra, a second-year student of Nimra Engineering College and Technology, bagged first prize at the national level tennis championship competitions held recently. The competitions were held as part of the event organised by Vignan Engineering College. G. Ravikiran in Vijayawada