play time A performance marked the launch   | Photo Credit:  The sixth issue of Sanghamitra, a journal of queer writing, was released There was a dance performance, readings and a launch. Good As You, an informal support group of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) or others in the city came out with their journal “Sanghamitra” released by columnist and author C.K. Meena at the Ants cafe. It’s sixth issue in 13 years, “Sanghamitra” by Good As You features a collection of queer writing — from personal experiences to public deliberations of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code in poems, prose and pieces of reflection. Sanghamitra is a compilation of collective voices. Moments of love and reciprocation, reflections on myths about homosexuals, diseases, psychology and AIDS, decriminalising Section 377 of the IPC, being gay, low-caste and underprivileged, excerpts from publications, movie musings about representations of homosexuals and how cinema and TV serve an outlet for creative expression like in “Honeymoon Travels”, “Brokeback Mountain”, “My Best Friend’s Wedding”, “As Good as it Gets”, “Trick” and “Will and Grace”. The overriding belief that women are only gay till graduation (gtg), a hilarious list of soundtracks, thoughts of a heterosexual on homosexuality, translation of a train journey account about a loving lesbian couple, funny encounters, the Bengaluru Gay Pride ’08, an online community, an excerpt and open letters against section 377 with a signature campaign in “Same Sex Love in India”, edited by Ruth Vanita , newspaper articles on court hearings of section 377 with a signature campaign in “Same Sex Love in India”, edited by Ruth Vanita and Saleem Kidwai, magazine articles, to mentions of “Facing the Mirror — Lesbian Writing in India” edited by Ashwini Sukthankar. Here is an engaging, thought-provoking journal that ends with a database of LGBT support groups and organisations working on sexuality. C.K. Meena recalled her association with queer rights groups as a long-time supporter, having attended the first launch of “Sanghamitra” around 15 years ago and the journey it has taken hence. Editors Siddharth Narrain and Nithin Manayath began the evening with an introduction to both the group and journal, while Joshua Muyiwa read from arresting, sensuous poems and dancers Divya, Gayathri and Arka performed an episode from the journal. “Sanghamitra”, concludes C.K. Meena, is an important medium of expression that encapsulates everything from humour to information of love between people at a time when Sean Penn was awarded Best Actor for his outstanding portrayal of Harvey Milk, the first openly gay American activist who was elected to public office in California and was assassinated 30 years ago. Visit 