Sib Kumar Das BERHAMPUR: “Would my daughter, who is not infected, be able to lead a proper family life and get social acceptance,” is the thought assailing the minds of HIV positive mothers of Ganjam district. There are many HIV positive widows in this HIV prone district of Orissa who with their mental strength have succeeded in keeping their families together and survive after the death of their husbands. All of them were infected of the killer virus by their husbands, mostly migrant labourers. One such determined woman is Madhumati who lives in a small house built by her on the outskirts of Singipur village near Aska. All the property the family owned was sold to meet the expenses of her HIV positive husband’s treatment who died seven years ago. Only after his death did she get herself tested and found that she was also HIV positive. Luckily, none of their three children was infected. Fortunately, her villagers did not attach much stigma to her condition. So she could manage to live near the village although her husband’s house had been sold. She also had to support her old mother-in-law. She says the emotional support of villagers helped her as she had to face harsh realities at a very tender age. She had married at 16 and her eldest daughter is now 15 years old and the two boys are 13 and 12 years. Her daughter is now studying in class IX at a nearby high school. Madhumati is quite happy that her daughter is not facing any major social ostracism either at the village or in the school. But a worry dogs her. She is worried about the marriage of her daughter. “People of my village may not attach stigma to HIV positive persons and their progeny but can I expect the same from other quarters,” she asked. Loknath Mishra, a social worker active in rehabilitation of HIV positive persons in the Ganjam district also accepts that to expect similar broadmindedness from other areas in Ganjam is not realistic. Awareness and rehabilitation programs for AIDS/HIV positive persons continue in a few blocks of Ganjam district although incidence of the deadly virus is on the rise everywhere. Added to it is the problem of social stigma which needs to be rooted out of the minds of rural public. As long as social stigma remains women like Madhumati will continue to suffer.