From the album The author Abraham Verghese.    George and Mariam Verghese, parents of author Abraham Verghese, reminisce about their son’s childhood and its influence on ‘Cutting for Stone,’ his latest work, as Anupama Rajulistens The cosy apartment is aglow with the mid-day sun. The sunlight dances off of old black and white family photographs – just the right setting for a walk down memory lane. And George and Mariam Verghese, who live there, are full of fond reminiscences about their son, renowned doctor and author Abraham Verghese. Well-known for his earlier non-fictional works, ‘My Own Country’ and ‘Tennis Partner,’ Abraham was born in Ethiopia and studied medicine in Chennai. He now works at Stanford University in the United States (U.S), where he touches many a life with his work with HIV-positive patients and where he continues to spread his philosophy of “healing.” Abraham’s latest book and his first novel, ‘Cutting for Stone’ has just been published and so, there could not be a better time to know more about this doctor-writer, especially from his parents who now live in Thiruvananthapuram. His parents, George and Mariam, moved to Ethiopia in the early 1950’s as part of a large group of Malayali teachers that migrated to the African country. Both of them taught physics and worked in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. The presence of a strong Malayali Christian community made Addis Ababa, a home away from home. “We even had a church of our own, with Sunday service in Malayalam,” recalls George, as his eyes sparkle with memories. But perhaps life in Ethiopia was more beautiful for its rich multi-cultural environment and scenic landscape: An aspect that was to later come alive in the pages of Abraham’s lyrical novel. The second of three sons, Abraham was always a “naughty” boy, say his parents, as they recount numerous entertaining episodes from his childhood. George recalls of how one day he returned home to find two of their boys (Abraham and George, his elder brother) standing in two corners of the room. Mariam had apparently asked them to do so, to put an end to their arguments. Abraham promptly asked his father to stand in the third corner! “Abraham has always had a vivid imagination and was very playful,” points out George, which probably also explains the humour in his books. Quite like Abraham, the protagonist in ‘Cutting for Stone’ is a doctor; was born in Ethiopia and works in the U.S. But the novel is not autobiographical, clarify Mariam and George. Nevertheless, there are some elements in common such as the school the boys went to in Ethiopia and a character shaped after an Ethiopian guard who worked for the family. George says animatedly that the character is so well described that he appears to be alive. “Abraham describes things he saw as a child,” says George, alluding to the descriptions in the novel, about men walking with sheep on their shoulders. His wife recalls of how on Saturdays, Ethiopian men used to bring sheep to their home to sell meat. Life in Ethiopia is thus an obvious strain in the novel. His fondness for the country of birth is also apparent in the vibrant description of the Ethiopian landscape, especially in the first chapter. Unmistakably, what the couple enjoy the most in their son’s writing is his talent for describing minute details. Mariam says that the descriptions in ‘My Own Country’ were also so intense that they moved her to tears. This richness of detail perhaps also stems from the vast number of books Abraham read as a child. Mariam remembers how her boys were always reading all kinds of books. She also points to the close bond that the brothers share. “When the three of them meet up in America, they often eat in Ethiopian restaurants, relishing Dorowot (Ethiopian Chicken curry) and Injera, a kind of dosa,” says George. With this last detail, it was time to leave, enriched by memories alive in this gentle couple and in Abraham’s writings.