Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: Stating that the HIV affected people could fight for their rights including the right to live and their share in the ancestral property, members of the Cheyuta HIV Infected People Empowerment Society (CHES+) on Saturday announced that their organisation was ready to provide free legal assistance to the needy. At a seminar organised by the CHES+ at Press Club on ‘Legal Literacy to the HIV People,’ programme manager of the Telugu Network of People Living with HIV G. Jagadeesh Kumar said that the network was functioning with an objective to provide legal assistance to about 1.5 lakh HIV afflicted people in all the 23 districts. “In most of the cases, the victims are young widows, who have to take care of their infants. They are subjected to social boycott, following the death of their spouses and in many cases they are not getting their share in family properties,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that a pilot project to provide legal assistance to the victims was launched by the network with the help of the United National Development Programme and the Andhra Pradesh AIDS Control Society. “So far, we have taken up 300 cases and rendered justice to the victims,” he said. Secretary of the Vasavya Mahila Mandali G. Rashmi said that their organisation took up the issue of children of the HIV afflicted families. “Till 2006, attention was not paid towards the children of the HIV victims. With the help of Clinton Foundation, we have launched a programme for the benefit of the children and working to protect their rights,” she explained. President of the CHES+ K. Renuka said that their organisation was working for the HIV positive people for the last six years. “Besides conducting health camps for them, we are conducting various training programmes for them and distributing them short-term loans,” she said. With regard to filing of cases, she said that so far they registered 60 complaints in which 40 got solved through counselling and the remaining 20 got solved with the intervention of the court.