Preventive measure: A visitor undergoing a spirometry test at the Hepatitis B-Free City Health Camp organised by the CMC in Vellore on Thursday. —   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent VELLORE: Of the six billion world population, two billion people are infected with Hepatitis-B. Of this, 400 million are chronically infected. Around one million people die of the disease every year, at the rate of two persons each minute. But there is little awareness of the disease and of taking preventive measures through immunisation. Under these circumstances, the Departments of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Community Health Nursing of the Christian Medical College, Vellore, in collaboration with A Hepatitis-B Awareness and Safety (AHBASS) Initiative, have organised a Hepatitis-B -Free City Health Camp at the CMC Hospital here from February 5 to 7. The camp includes the HBs Ag test, a facility for testing the presence of the Hepatitis-B surface antigen in the blood. If a person harbours the antigen in his blood, he has the disease, and he is advised follow-up measures for treatment. While the test cost is Rs.150 in private clinical laboratories, the CMC is charging Rs. 20 per test at the camp venue, said George M. Chandy, Head of the Department of Gastroenterology. The vaccine is given in three doses. The first injection within 12 hours of birth, the second one at one to two months and the third one at six months. Older children and adults too can get themselves immunised against the disease by getting three injections over a period of six months. The symptoms for the disease are depression, vomiting, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, itching, nausea, abdominal pain, icterus (yellowing of the eyes), fatigue and loss of weight. Hepatitis-B is treated through anti-retroviral therapy and through liver transplantation. The Department of Pulmonary Diseases too has put up stalls to create awareness of chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD), asthma and the availability of various types of inhalers for respiratory diseases. A free spirometry test was conducted for smokers. A stall put up by the Infectious Diseases Clinic conducted free HIV test to volunteers among visitors and also conducted HIV information test, by giving a questionnaire. Twenty-four health workers underwent the test on the first day. Dr. Chandy said that random blood sugar test was done free of cost for the visitors to enable them to know their blood sugar level. There was an exclusive stall on lifestyle modification, to advise people on how to maintain or modify their lifestyle to protect themselves from diseases and to manage diseases. “We plan to start a regular lifestyle clinic in the CMC Hospital”, he said. Collector C. Rajendran who inaugurated the camp said that the government and the CMC Hospital could work together to create a healthy district. R. Nataraj, Director-General of Prisons, Tamil Nadu, requested the CMC Hospital to help in the administration of Hepatitis-B vaccines to inmates of the central prison and provide health education to the prisoners. While health workers visited the camp on Thursday, the camp is open to school and college students on Friday, and to the general public on Saturday. The camp would be open from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.