First fiction: I learnt so much writing this book, says Abraham Verghese.   | Photo Credit:  Mukund Padmanabhan I think I got sidetracked into non-fiction. I was publishing short stories but I had just lived through that extraordinary period in American history — the arrival and spread of HIV into the hinterland. There was a lot of interest in that. In the publishing world there’s lot more demand for non-fiction, an inherent interest. I had thought I would take that HIV experience and capture it through fiction. But it turned out there was much more interest in non-fiction, so I got sidetracked into that first non-fiction book [My Own Country]. It did well and the publishers were very interested in another one. And it so happened I lived through what I thought was another extraordinary personal story. Right. And then when I was done with that, they were interested in what other non-fiction ideas I had. I said I really want to write a novel. Honestly, there wasn’t much interest in that. With a novel, at least in America, you have to write the novel to sell it. You can’t sell it on spec, sell an idea. So I began on the novel quietly and after about a year and a half, I told my agent I want a contract, an affirmation that it’s worth spending a few more years of my life on this. It takes a long time for me, given my day job and all that. At that point we showed it around and Knopf bought the book. That’s why it took so long. If I had not had an early opportunity to write non-fiction, I would have come up with a novel. Not this exact one, of course. I learnt so much writing this book. I started with just an image of a south Indian nun being far away from home and giving birth in a mission hospital. That’s all I knew. I had a voice that developed around that, a tone I felt I had found — a somewhat nostalgic, distant kind of antique tone. And then I just kept going with that. I didn’t know exactly where I was going, but I was following my voice. There were many dead-ends, many diversions that my wonderful editor was able to pull me back from. Somewhat late in the book, we sat down and hammered out an ending. Because at that point there were too many possibilities. I have learnt that there are two schools of writing. There are these people like John Irving who have it all plotted out, who begin at the end in a way and work back. Then there are people like Michael Ondaatje, and [E.L.] Doctorow as well, who says it’s like driving at night with your headlights on. You see only as far as your headlights show you. I think I wound up using up both forms. I started with a voice and then used my headlights. Well, my brother, even though he’s a math whiz and so on, was very much a normal kid, as I was. I did not mean to portray Shiva and his eccentricities as relating to my brother. I think I followed the geography of my life, and what knowledge I had of the political situations that these characters were steeped in. In that sense, it was autobiographical. At some level, all novels are. A lot of the beliefs that I hold about medicine are in this book. Some of the things the characters wrestle with are things I have thought about in my life. It was a very conscious thought. But this is not really a book about medicine but about life. My belief is that when it works, fiction tells more truth than non-fiction. One of my favourite quotes is that of Dorothy Allison who said fiction is the great lie that tells the truth about how the world lives. So the universal truth about maybe every novel, or at least the ones I like, is that life is ultimately ironic and slightly tragic. I wanted to say that medicine is universal, as you point out. But I also wanted to develop this understanding of medicine as a double-edged sword: that you could lose yourself like Thomas Stone, and everything of value to you. You have really caught on to this. I think there are a lot of these dualities — putting the conceit of cure against healing, giving your life to medicine against having your life robbed by it. So I wanted to take these extremes and look at it. As you point out, words of comfort are not a therapeutic tool that brings about any cure. But they can be the most important thing — they can bring the heart rate down, stop people from panicking, from making things worse. I am so glad to hear you say that. My fear is that Ethiopians who read it may somehow see it as being disrespectful of the land. I hope the sense [of affection] I have does come across, especially for the lower class, the uneducated. There was a tremendous dignity and grace to them that I have come to recognise, as I have got older. There are Ethiopian Jews in Israel and there is a huge diaspora of Ethiopians in America who is going to read this very closely. And I am delighted to hear you articulate something that I hope these readers will recognise. I loved that land. I was born in that land. I could have seen myself living there for the rest of my life had the political situation been different. That’s a good question. Sometimes these things are not conscious. They just emerge. I think it was a desire to give Shiva and Marion some sort of awareness that was distinct from everyone else’s, that alerted them to danger, allowed them to be conscious of things before other people. It comes back in a fashion in the novel. Shiva’s perverse sense of smell, which leads him to be attracted to women with fistula, changes the direction of his life. In Marion’s case, the odour comes back in that he begins to recognise the smell of death. We have all these new diseases but no one now talks about odours. But I think there are some new odours that have emerged in medicine. As we have become more technologically sophisticated, we have become more retarded in our sensory nature. It should. I joke, but only half-joke, that when someone comes into the hospital missing a finger, no one believes him until a bone scan or MRI is done. We have lost the ability to use common sense and our senses because we are so heavily dependent on technology. Maybe it [the talk about smells] was just a way of harking back to that. Or else that there really are no accidents. That many of these things that seem accidental are pre-ordained. Why would Marion travel to America and not think that one day he would run into his father? My own life has been like that. My parents wound up in Ethiopia as schoolteachers only because the Christian Emperor made a state visit to India where he wanted to see the churches of St. Thomas in Kerala. He decided to hire all his schoolteachers from this one State. I grew up in Ethiopia with a heavily Syrian Christian population of teachers, with our own church. Life has shown me time and time again that geography is destiny.