Inventive Passionate about music   | Photo Credit:  Tamil rock ‘n’ roll star Jesudasan Rajasekaran tells SOMA BASUhow he made folk songs rock Google search yielded no result and I wondered how the seat of Tamil language and literature could be the place for bands or rock ‘n’ roll stars. That is till I located Jesudasan Rajasekaran, through a friend in Chennai. In his eco-friendly non-plastered house in Madurai built “with minimum sand and cement”, it took me a while to identify him from the old B/W pictures — bell bottoms of the 70s and a Spanish guitar in hand. “I used to be an Afro-head. People made fun of my black curly hair, but I didn’t bother,” he says ushering me into his house, planned and designed by him and his wife Vidya. Pushing 60 today, his pate shines more, the salt and pepper beard redefines his looks, but he remains as lean as ever. His red and white floral shirt with a “Quit Smoking - Cansupport” badge and his three decades old guitar — “my first wife” he fondly calls it — help to dust off traces of oblivion. “Your interview is slated for the Valentine’s Day issue,” I blurt out. He squeals: “My favourite love song is from the ‘Beatles’ – And I love her.” Next, Rajasekaran picks up his expensive Takamine piece, a Yamaha acoustic electric guitar, and effortlessly breaks into “I give her all my love, that’s all I do. And if you saw my love, you will love her too…” The minimalist drawing room resounds with his rich baritone voice for the next 10 minutes, the accent and action perfectly in place. How did it all begin? With equal ease Rajasekaran takes off, often breaking into the golden hits of Cliff Richards, Elvis Presley, Bob Dylan, Beatles, Boney M and Mick Jaggers for an answer. The very ‘musical interview’ zips through in no time. “I am the only fossilised freelance rock singer in the city today,” he grins. This Madurai boy hailing from a family of lawyers had music in his blood. “My mother played the piano and my father, violin. I grew up listening to the commercial service of Radio Ceylon, the best provider of Rock and Roll music those days.” As a student of Setupati Higher Secondary School, he had the most contrasting classmate to pair with – the famous Carnatic music singer T.N.Seshagopalan. “The Principal used to ask him to sing ‘Thodudaia Sevian’ at school assembly and for every school function, he would tell me to bring my “seemai veenai” (read guitar). I enjoyed dancing, hopping, shaking, jumping on the stage while singing Cliff Richard’s “Put on your dancing shoes” or Beatles “I wanna hold your hand”. “People did not understand what I was singing, but they liked the music and appreciated my ability to sing like a foreigner!” Post Indo-Pak 1965 war, a Flag Day celebration was held at Gandhi Museum for raising funds for war widows. With students from American college, this class X boy gave a performance of mostly songs from The Beatles. From then on bands became a part of his life as he sang and strummed with many from South India. He wanted to hit the roads with his music, but his personal life was entangled in “lot of drama.” His parents wanted him to take up a “respectable career” but the “the black sheep” had different ideas about life. Rajasekaran applied for a course in Shantiniketan but when his parents refused to pay the fee, he joined English Literature in American College in 1970 and started the College Orchestra with Moses Jeyakumar (father of cine music director Harris Jeyaraj). “We romped through peoples’ hearts with some of the best hits of the time. I remember McKenna’s Gold was playing in theatres and whenever I sang the famous ‘Old Turkey Buzzard’ from the film at functions, people were stunned.” “We went to Trivandrum to represent our college in a contest organised by the Leo Club in 1972. In a desperate move we named ourselves “Beg, Borrow, Steal” as we had neither money nor instrument. We performed on borrowed guitars and drums and went on to win Rs.1,000 in cash as first prize!” From that day Rajasekaran established a bond with the city that exists even today. Only last month he was there as a guest singer for “Twisters”. But what made Rajasekaran famous was his introduction of Tamil Rock ‘n’ Roll. “Ask the native 35-plus population, they know me and my songs,” he smiles. Friendship with Lars, a Danish student of Folklore Archives of Denmark, opened the floodgates of Tamil folk music genre to him. “Carrying spools we visited villages, sat with the farm workers through the night recording them. We categorised more than 100 Tamil folk songs into lullaby, dirges, work or love songs. The collection was broadcast on Danish radio in 1973.” Around the same time, Rajasekaran started translating some of the best blues songs like Midnight Special into Tamil and singing for the prisoners of Madurai Central Jail. It proved to be a turning point as he consciously decided to compose originals. “Cinema music influences Tamil pop too and I felt the need for parallel music. I started writing songs in Tamil, imitated the intensely energetic music and playfully married it to local language suiting the local culture. Every song I wrote and sang reflected my political statement too.” After college, Rajasekaran surfed the world briefly and returned to India after Emergency and joined TVS family-run Sathguru Sangeetha Samajam Music College in Madurai but left midway when he got an offer to sing in pubs in Kualalumpur. “I was a break artist playing brief solo sessions each time the main band members took a break. But I lasted there for six months in 1978.” Rajsekaran’s decade’s association with a local band “Blue Birds” and its lead guitarist Lowelin Francis introduced him to the Anglo-Indian community and culture. “We enjoyed a good patronage at regular events like May Queen, June Rose, X-mas and New Year, Independence Day and Republic Day Ball besides the wedding balls. I left my listeners dancing in their chairs at many concerts and college festivals.” “We travelled a lot, almost like a road show. There was no dearth of invites till television entered peoples’ drawing rooms in 80s. Patronage dwindled and Blue Birds split in 1986.” Keen to promote his Tamil compositions, Rajasekaran launched his “Glass Bangles” the same year with an American friend Peter Meyer. By the turn of the Century, it too became a ‘solo’ bangle. Rajasekaran even tried getting into the tinsel town while playing for “Euphony” in Chennai in 1979-80. It didn’t happen and he worked for the All India Radio briefly as a Western Music station artiste. But unable to support himself with music, he returned to his hometown and started working as a Resident Coordinator for the University of Wisconsin’s Programme for Under-Graduates from the U.S. Rajasekaran retired from the job, which he took up in 1981 to take care of academic and personal needs of American students in the city, only last summer. Now he mostly goes as guest artiste for solo performances to N.G.0s, schools and local colleges. “Music is fun and singing makes me happy. Otherwise I enjoy travelling. I am happy that I could nourish my talent and bring joy to people,” he says with humility, a quality which music alone teaches him. “I revived Tamil folk songs with rock flavour in Madurai, but I am more popular in Kerala. They still call me Mick Jaggers of the South!” he blinks. He exudes optimism on the future: “Bands off and on have no outlet to release their music. But now people are returning to outdoor entertainment. Bands must know that people like me still exist.” “I can perform in front of anybody anywhere, even a one-member audience. I can go on for hours,” he says longingly. But I need to rush back and write this copy. Has released two albums. "Naan Oru Oomai" in 1986 with Richard Wolf as lead guitarist and Balraj brothers playing the guitar and drums. "Dhavani" with Peter Meyer in 1991. In 1976, he played at a fund raising concert for Bihar flood victims in Trivandrum with a local band ’Copper’. Was the lead singer for Blue Birds from 1976 to 1986. Formed his own band "Glass Bangles" in 1986 and kept it going till 2006. Did a peace concert at Gandhi Museum, Madurai in 1992. In 1991, he worked with David Byrne of Talking Heads to coordinate recording of a song by Kannada film music director Vijay Anand. During this project, he acquainted Dilip who played the keyboard for the song "Happy Suicide" and later went on to become A. R. Rahman. Has composed songs and music for a documentary on the hardship of Cobblers of Tiruchi, Dharmanathapuram in 2006. Has also written songs for an UNICEF project on AIDS awareness. Is co-authoring a book on River Vaigai with Peter Nabokov, a social anthropologist from UCLA. The book, to be published shortly is titled "A stretch of life" Now runs "Chella Meenakshi" an educational society that helps students, researchers, travellers from abroad. His best provider of rock music now is the online Jango Radio and World Space.