NOTHING is impossible: R. Jayasuriya, who suffers from autism, pulling an autorickshaw in Tiruchi on Thursday. —   | Photo Credit:  S. Ganesan TIRUCHI: Pushing the limits of endurance for records is not uncommon among many who wish to display their physical prowess. But for R.Jayasuriya, an eleven-year-old-boy suffering from autism, it is almost a self-assertion that he could be as normal as any other boy of his age or even better. Jayasuriya was a star attraction at the Collectorate on Thursday when he pulled with ease an autorickshaw. Son of autorickshaw driver R.Rajmohan of Convent Road, Jayasuriya has been displaying his skill at various events of late, including a sports meet for the differently-abled held in the city recently. Rajmohan claims that the boy can pull the vehicle for about a kilometre. Jayasuriya is a second standard student at the NEST Special School in Tiruchi and has no training for such endurance shows. Yet, he has taken a liking to it. “His teachers found him pushing bicycles and motorcycles in the school. Since he had a problem in arm movement, they encouraged him to push heavy objects. I encouraged him to push the auto at home and gradually trained him in pulling the vehicle,” says Mr.Rajmohan. Soon the boy took a fascination for pulling the autorickshaw tied behind his back. “He enjoys it,” says Mr.Rajmohan, who discovered that his son was suffering from autism, a brain development disorder, only when he was six years old. Subsequently, he was put in the special school. Jayasuriya is able to handle tasks and communicate better now. “He has shown much improvement, thanks to the efforts of the special school teachers,” says the father. A smiling Jayasuriya displayed his skill in the presence of Collector T.Soundiah during an exclusive grievance redressal camp for disabled persons, transgenders and HIV positive persons. Mr.Soundiah joined the onlookers in appreciating the boy’s determination. Mr.Soundiah also felicitated a couple of other physically disabled students from Tiruchi, V.Sathish Kumar, a second year engineering student, and G.Kannan, a painter, who had won prizes in the South zone para-olympics held in Madurai recently.