B. Muralidhar Reddy MULLAITHIVU: The idyllic town facing the placid Indian Ocean, which served as the main garrison base of the LTTE till last week, is struck again by tsunami but with a difference. Unlike the 2004 December tsunami which devastated the picturesque settlement and killed hundreds of people, the latest one in the form of swift capture of the town by the Sri Lankan forces from the LTTE last Sunday (January 25) has left little evidence of destruction. It is true there is not a single soul in the town but the dwellings here stand intact. Though it is not evident if the civilians were taken forcibly with them by the retreating Tigers, it is certain that the evacuation is a hurried job. In total contrast to Kilinochchi, most structures in Mullaithivu have suffered little damage in the battles. Unlike Kilinochchi, in Mullaithivu town one has to search for evidence of vandalism and destruction. The explanation of the officers who led the operation for control of Mullaithivu is that the Tigers had certainly not anticipated the military to move so swiftly. Barring the bustle of the military vehicles, the deafening sounds of artillery fire and shelling, Mullaithivu is a lifeless town. No one has precise estimates of civilians in the vastly shrunk territory under the control of the Tigers. The government estimates vary from 1,00,000 to 2,00,000 and presence of such a large number of civilians in a small territory is a matter of serious concern to the military. Nandana Udawatte, officer whose brigade led the march for Mullaithivu, told a group of visiting international and local media that the LTTE had dug ditches stretching from a kilometre to three kilometres at six different places to stall the advance of the forces. “We managed to breach the bunds at specific points and fought them from behind. They were clearly taken by surprise by the tactics of the military. We faced resistance in the initial stages but towards the end the Tiger defences collapsed like nine pins,” he said. For the military, the capture of Mullaithivu is of special significance as it had lost hundreds of soldiers when the LTTE took control of the town in July 1996.