Special Correspondent CHENNAI: Continuing medical education should be made compulsory for registered doctors in the country as in the United Kingdom and in some states of the United States to keep the doctors up to date with the latest drugs, equipment and medical practices, K. Meer Mustafa Hussain, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Dr.MGR Medical University, said on Saturday. Inaugurating the third winter Indo-American Continuing Medical Education, Dr. Meer Mustafa Hussain said that though the Medical Council of India had proposed a draft amendment to the existing law to make it compulsory for doctors, it had made little progress. It was said that medical associations had failed to lobby for the change in the law. Besides some health professionals were resisting the change, as they lacked opportunity and incentives for undergoing continuing medical education of good quality. Other doctors feared that the lack of up-to date knowledge, in the absence of continuing medical education, could endanger the lives of patients and perpetuate outmoded practices. The MGR Medical University had made two continuing medical education programmes, organised by registered bodies, compulsory for postgraduate medical students. He also wanted the doctors to make use of the medical sites on the Internet to find the most updated and reliable answers to their clinical problems. This would be no different from reading journals, books or self-produced notes. The two-day programme is being organised by the State chapter of the Association of Physicians of India, the American Medical Association and the Medical Council of India. Stacie Greby of the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Global AIDS Programme, Department of Health and Human Services, said the centre was offering technical assistance for the HIV prevention programme and conducting a training programme for doctors, as the limiting factor now was the availability of trained personnel. Despite much progress in AIDS control, the stigma attached to the disease was still there. To erase it, an effective awareness programme was needed, she said. Vijay Viswanathan, secretary of the Chennai chapter, said 250 doctors from Tamil Nadu and the United States were taking part in the programme that would discuss recent advances in heart diseases, gastric and blood disorders and other interesting medical and surgical problems.