TALENTED Smitha is effortless in light as well as emotional scenes    If the industry continues to treat Smitha with indifference, she will soon be somebody else’s gain The dust has settled. The annual accusations of manipulation and nepotism are gradually dying. You can’t please everyone and it’s an accepted fact that awards cannot satisfy everyone. Why should the jury be discerning in the way we understand it? When a film becomes a box-office success nobody questions the credibility or credentials of the audience. It’s amazing that K. Manju is raising a hue and cry. He should be elated that at least a few have found something positive about “Mathad Mathad Mallige”! Many of the State awards this year are questionable but the two most deserving are definitely Umashree and Smitha. The former is a proven talent but the latter who has the potential to become a powerhouse performer is a victim of double standards. She’s been all but written off without being given a fair chance. Smitha is the only reason that made “Avva” tolerable and I’m not referring to the shoddily shot intimate scenes. She has an impish charm and is effortless in the light as well as emotional scenes. Smitha is a software engineer who threw up a cushy job with Infosys to chase her dreams. She’s an alumni of the Anupam Kher school of acting. With neither a godfather nor a known soul in the industry she realised that there were more wolves (industry wolves don’t even bother to masquerade as sheep) than well-wishers. She was appreciated for “Avva”, but roles were not forthcoming. The sad fact is that nobody has a convincing reason for not signing her. When you don’t give credit to the heroine for a film’s success how can you blame her for its failure? Anyway if Smitha is still struggling it’s for anything but lack of talent. There are very few projects offered without an indecent proposal thrown in. You refuse the latter and you are thrown out of the former. Smitha is made of sterner stuff. She’s waiting for a role of substance. Meanwhile, she’s completed a Tamil film and is shooting for another. Will success follow recognition or will Kannada cinema’s loss be Kodambakkam’s gain? *** BIFFES-09 was a kaleidoscope of cultures that only cinema can unify. The films were mostly good, some bad and a few indifferent. It was efficiently organised and if there were glitches they were beyond the control of the organisers who are working on a shoestring budget. The projection and sound quality left a lot to be desired. The quality of some of the prints was terrible with scratches and noisy jumps. The reservation of seats for VIPs is a bad idea amounting to discrimination among cineastes. And to make things worse, the VIP’s were trudging in late, talking loudly amongst themselves and chatting away on their cell phones. The absence of literally anyone from mainstream cinema save Chetan was conspicuous. All said and done Suchitra should be lauded for opening a window to world cinema. S. SHIVA KUMAR