Proud moment : When their ideas take shape.   | Photo Credit:  MADHUMITHA SRINIVASAN These kids scripted their own short films, portraying their thoughts and ideas. Work while you work, and play while you have to. But where’s the time for school in between all this? In the movie “Sadugudu” (Tamil reference for the game of Kabbadi), the protagonists, a bunch of village lads, work during the day and play kabbadi afterwards, when they rightfully have to be in school. And it isn’t just another movie on child labour, but one ideated by kids who were given a free hand at trying to change the world around them by Nalanda Way in association with World Vision India. The school kids from Valathur — R. Anand Raj, R. Kiran, A. Aravind, the creative heads, along with S. Bagavathi and M. Jabaraj, part of the cast, were invited for the official launch of the movie by Nalanday Way this month. These kids were part of a sensitisation workshop, conducted for 20 children from World Vision’s child labour projects in the south, that discussed with them and invited their opinions and ideas on issues like child labour, HIV/AIDS, child abuse and so on. Not stopping with that, the children were given an opportunity to communicate their ideas by scripting their own short films like “Sadugudu”. This movie is actually the second one to be produced, the first one being “Got you!” a light-hearted film that deals with the acceptance of a HIV+ child in society. “We believe in the wisdom of the child. They know what issues they face. And we didn’t want to provide the answers but rather help them be a part of the process and initiate the change,” explains Sriram Iyer, Founder and CEO, Nalanda Way, of the workshop on media, arts, child rights and script writing. The launch was followed by screening where another valuable lesson was learnt: movies dealing with social issues needn’t always have to be boring. The protagonists of the film are an illiterate bunch of village youngsters who mostly work in whatever the village can offer in terms of employment — flour mill, agriculture, cattle rearing, putting up posters and selling ice creams. The humorous exchanges between themselves and their attempts to participate in a Kabbadi competition for school kids and win it is what make up the story. It’s funny, but the message isn’t lost amidst all that laughter: “Every child has the right to education”. “When we talk about child labour, only instances of kids working in match factories and hotels come to light. But did you know that 75 per cent of the child labourers are engaged in agriculture?” says Arun Raj, the director of the short film. Because, ultimately, like the brains behind the movie said, rather spiritedly, “If child labour exists in our country, how can we expect India to become a superpower?!”