Staff reporter VIJAYAWADA: The Tiranga Unity Blood Donation Camp drew huge crowds on Tuesday, but the organisers could not meet their target of collecting 20,000 units at the end of the programme. The organisers said they could collect 8,542 units of blood, though the registrations touched 32,193. More than 21,000 aspirant donors were screened for any health problems like hypertension and underweight, and a good number of them were found ineligible for donating blood for various reasons. Though the organisers made arrangements for collecting more than 20,000 units, only 10,000 bags were handed over to the medical officers present at the roughly 50 blocks put up at the camp. Only less than 9,000 bags were utilised, indicating the shortfall in meeting the target. The number of rejections would, normally, be in the range of 5 per cent to 8 per cent at any blood donation camp, but here it exceeded 10 per cent, the organisers said. Lagadapati Rajagopal, MP, who went round the stalls at 5.30 p.m., tried to motivate the volunteers and the staff on duty to donate blood. “We can add another 2,000 units if all of you donate blood,” he told the volunteers and the paramedical staff. “If we meet the target here, the concept will be replicated in other districts. If not, we will organise the event once again next year,” he told reporters. There was neither a dearth of response nor efforts, he said, asserting that the camp had evoked national spirit and motivated new donors. The camp began on an enthusiastic note as a large number of youth, mostly teenagers, turned up barely within the couple of hours of inauguration. But the organisers sieved out youngsters, mostly girls, and the aged for various reasons. A good number of girls and women were found to be either in menstrual period or too week, while others showed symptoms of hypertension, low eight and diabetes, said G.V. Mohan Prasad, founder-chairman of the Rotary Red Cross Blood Bank. Tests for blood pressure as well as weight and pulse were carried out at the screening counters. The organisers put up 50 blocks of 22 beds each, while there were more than 10 screening counters. A special team of doctors and paramedical staff with necessary equipment were made available at the camp to meet emergency cases. Some aspirant blood donors fainted at the camp, while some others panicked. The organisers said that the blood collected would be processed and screened for all transmissible disease like AIDS, hepatitis, VDRL, malaria and so on, before making available to the needy. A list of donors with their blood group was compiled during the blood donation drive to enhance the efficiency of the blood banks for emergency purposes. Sub-Collector Gaurav Uppal, Indian Red Cross Society Krishna district secretary A. Sridhar Reddy and others were present.