With the general elections getting nearer, the prospects of different political parties and politicians has become the main topic of discussion in the gossip hubs in the capital city. One could hear people discussing the prevailing political scenario alongside roads, parks and near the tea shops during most part of the day. The two leaders whose names figure prominently are Chief Minister and Biju Janata Dal president Naveen Patnaik and BJD Rajya Sabha member Pyarimohan Mohapatra. They are termed King and the Kingmaker respectively. The name of former Chief Minister J.B. Patnaik also figures in the discussions with many arguing that the BJD president will find it easy to make a hat-trick as Chief Minister if the veteran Congressman actively participates in election campaign. The senior Congressman has since resigned as leader of the Congress Legislature Party under pressure from the All-India Congress Committee, but whether he would be able to restrain himself from being active during the poll campaign remains to be seen. Be it AIDS control or road safety, it is the schoolchildren who have to march out on city roads. These tender minds who may not know what corruption or religion is shout slogans against corruption and religious fundamentalism. The greatest irony is that the organisers who hold these rallies for social awareness prefer to zoom past the small children walking on the city roads on their bikes and cars to reach the end point of the rallies much before the children reach there. Usually the organisers are in need of a long walk at least through the rally rather than the small children toiling in the sun for some others’ pride on the stage. But the organisers never forget to lead the rally when it starts to have their faces framed by news cameramen. When asked why they do not prefer to walk along the rally, they say their health does not permit them. And for them schoolchildren are the best lambs to be driven around with whatever issue or social cause. If you are travelling these days by train, there is every chance that somebody would wake you up in the dead of the night and ask you to vacate seat for him. This inconvenience could be attributed to the ’management’ of Union Railway Minister Lalu Prasad, for which he has received all the accolades in the world. To expand revenue base, Indian railway has increased the number of seats to three from two in the side berth of a coach. Apart from the inconvenience caused due to overcrowding in a section, passengers are now facing another problem. The seat number, which is being given to you during reservation, is not final. Railway employees say since new software has not been installed to adjust with higher number of seats, the seat number in all probability will change till the final list is not prepared. Now the problem is getting worse. For elderly passengers, this last minute change of seat has become a headache. People are increasingly demanding that lets revert to the old system and keep the railway journey smooth. (Prafulla Das, Sib Kumar Das and Satyasundar Barik)