Another feather: Animal Husbandry Minister Mandali Buddha Prasad felicitating vocalist and cultural critic Pemmaraju Surya Rao at AIR, Vijayawada Station, in Vijayawada on Monday. Station Director Mangalagiri Aditya Prasad (extreme right), physician G. Samaram, psychiatrist Indla Ramasubba Reddy and former Mayor Jandhyala Sankar are also seen. —   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: It was the right occasion to pay glowing obeisance to stalwarts in literary and cultural arenas. The terrace of All India Radio building on Bandar Road transformed into a hub of such stalwarts on Monday as part of the ongoing diamond jubilee celebrations of Akashvani. The Vijayawada unit of the Akasavani grabbed the occasion for doing what seemed a long overdue thing –it felicitated 60 stalwarts from literary fields for their outstanding contribution to development of literature. Majority of those felicitated were in their twilight years. Physically frail but morally strong, they spoke with the same conviction that made them what they are today. “The Akasavani, Vijayawada, has been doing a yeoman service to the development of Telugu language. Many musical stalwarts have worked here and the rich traditions introduced by them are still practised here,” said Minister for Animal Husbandry Mandali Budha Prasad, the chief guest of the function. He pointed out that radio was an effective mode of communication. It was this medium in the past that reached out even to the remotest of areas at the time of natural calamities, spreading awareness among the general masses. Farmers had been benefiting immensely from the educative agricultural programmes aired at regular intervals. The radio had clearly survived the onslaught of the visual entertainment modes, he felt. Mangalagiri Aditya Prasad, Station Director of the All India Radio, heaped praises on great personalities associated with the station. While particularly recalling the services of eminent composer, scholar, musicologist and researcher Balantrapu Rajanikanta Rao, he took the opportunity to salute personalities of such vast repute. President-elect of the Indian Medical Association G. Samaram said the existing high level of awareness among the common man with regard to AIDS in villages could be attributed to the successful reach out of radio. Psychiatrist Indla Ramasubba Reddy recalled his close association with radio as a child. Former Mayor Jandhyala Sankar, Padmasri recipient Vedantam Satyanarayana Sarma and others spoke.