Sprout facts Most varieties, except soy bean, are not complete foods   | Photo Credit:  Sprouts are healthful, yes, but not complete foods Sprouts are newborn plants and they are among the most nutritious of plant foods. Depending on the species, it takes one to five days of soaking for germination to occur. Most plant species can give rise to edible sprouts: these include beans, oil seeds, and the seeds of leafy vegetables, roots and fruit. In the vegan/vegetarian world, sprouts are all but worshipped for their nutrition. Vegan websites gush about sprouts as a complete food with an abundance of vitamins and other nutrients. Apparently, the act of germination increases by threefold to tenfold the nutrient content of the seed. First, the acknowledgment. Sprouts are indeed healthful foods. They are chockfull of fibre and water-soluble vitamins; they are low in calories and fat. And yes, germination does increase the nutrient content of seeds and beans. In addition, it neutralises some inhibitors of nutrition and makes the protein and carbohydrate bits more digestible. However, sprouts (except for soybean) are not complete foods, and some of the health claims made by enthusiasts are misleading. For example, the claim that germination increases the vitamin content of seeds and beans by a big factor ignores the fact that the final, absolute vitamin content of sprouts is still quite low. A 100 gm of moong bean sprouts contain around 15 mg of Vitamin C, which is no doubt a big improvement on the amount found in dry moong bean. However, when compared with a fully formed head of cabbage that contains 55 mg of Vitamin C per 100 gm, it is quite low. A similar disparity between claim and reality exists for almost every nutrient in sprouts. Raw food enthusiasts will not like this, but sprouts are not safe for everybody. Outbreaks of salmonellosis and E. Coli have occurred in the West from eating raw sprouts. Children, the elderly, immuno compromised patients (those with HIV/AIDS, cancer patients, transplant recipients, those on immunosuppressant drugs, etc.) are better off eating them cooked. It is impossible to guarantee the safety of food left to soak at room temperature for such long durations. Even if the seeds are clean on the outside and the water used for soaking is pure, there is still the danger of bacteria lurking within the seeds. (The writer is a consultant in  Internal Medicine)