Parul Sharma NEW DELHI: In a new initiative, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, has set up a Red Ribbon Club to spread general awareness and explode myths related to HIV/AIDS. The Delhi State AIDS Control Society (DSACS) in collaboration with the National Service Scheme at IIT Delhi has set up this new club that was inaugurated this past week. “Officials from DSACS made a presentation for the students and informed them of the need for setting up a Red Ribbon Club at an educational institution. The objective is to spread awareness on AIDS among the youth and by the youth,” said Prof. M. R. Ravi of the Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Delhi, who is the National Service Scheme coordinator on the campus. “The club will target the youth in the age group of 18 to 30 years. Students are members of this club and they will share information about AIDS to increase the awareness level and remove myths associated with it. We will be getting some volunteers from DSACS to carry out the activities on the campus,” he added. Within two days of its establishment, over 100 students have already got themselves registered as volunteers with the club. The NSS at IIT Delhi has been fairly active over the past few years with its student volunteers taking part in various activities, events and workshops organised in association with several non-government organisations. In fact, every IIT Delhi student in his first two years at the institution has to necessarily devote 100 hours to one of the three: National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme or National Sports Organisation. This is also a degree requirement for students. As part of NSS, apart from organising awareness campaigns on different issues like protecting The Ridge, saving the Yamuna and teaching slum children, the students also undergo experiential workshops from time to time. “In association with the Pune-based Tej Gyan Foundation, self-encounter intensive workshops are held for students focusing on communication, productivity, creativity and innovation so that they understand themselves better,” said Assistant Professor Vijayaraghavan M. Chariar of IIT Delhi, who is one of the programme officers of the NSS. “The workshop is about transcending beliefs about oneself. We enable the students to connect with their inner dimension,” he added.