Ramya Kannan CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government’s budget announcement that dialysis units will be available more widely in the State, particularly at least one in every district, has been applauded by doctors and beneficiaries alike. The distribution of dialysis units would depend on the case load of every district. Therefore districts with many patients are likely to have more units than districts that have fewer patients, Principal Secretary, Health, V.K. Subburaj, explained. “We will also prioritise areas that are not well served even by private dialysis units.” The existing dialysis machines in the government sector are few and far between and are nearly always in the cities and medical college hospitals. There are a few exceptions; Mr. Subburaj points outs, as in Erode and Cuddalore government hospitals where the hospital management has taken the initiative to form public-private partnerships for purchasing dialysis units. “There is no doubt that no great improvements have been effected in the health sector until now when it comes to managing patients with kidney disease. In terms of dialysis, which is a life-saving procedure for them,” the Health secretary said. Currently, there are so few machines available that people have to wait a long while in order to get a chance at dialysis, a wait that might prove costly for the patient. One government doctor has praised the announcement ‘as the best-ever announcement in the last decade,’ and views it from a human rights’ standpoint. He says it will be of immense use to patients, primarily for those who do not have the resources to pay for dialysis, which is costly and can be life-long. The convener, Cadaver Transplant Programme, Tamil Nadu government, J. Amalorpavanathan also congratulated the State on its announcement. He says the availability of quality dialysis facilities at the district level will bring down the demand for cadavers. In fact, it could lead to elimination of kidney commerce in the State. S. Noori, South India Positive Network, said increasing dialysis machines in the public sector has been a long-pending demand of people living with HIV/AIDS and thanked the government profusely for the gesture. She says a number of positive people require dialysis treatment and are unable to access the same because of the unavailability of the service in the government hospitals. While appreciation has come in by and large, there are also professionals who offer some advice to the government which also has the duty of implementing the scheme successfully. Doctors in the public sector have suggested that the government must also make provisions for a water purification plant in all dialysis centres. According to them, an earlier experiment to set up more dialysis centres in government hospitals failed because pure water could not be sourced. Diagnostic facilities to test serum creatinine and urea levels must also be improved. Nephrologist and transplant physician Georgi Abraham, while welcoming the move, points to the lack of professionals to run the show. Every year, there are two lakh people with end stage renal disease while there are about 6,800 dialysis machines in the country, the majority in the private sector, he says. This leads to a huge gap between supply and demand, not only in terms of infrastructure, but also qualified professionals. There are currently about 850 nephrologists in the country. Dr. Abraham, who co-founded Tanker Foundation, a non-profit organisation to provide subsidised dialysis to patients, adds that a syllabus for a year’s course for MD (General Medicine) doctors in Dialysis Therapy is being drawn up.