Committed Serving with a cause   | Photo Credit:  S.GANESAN finds Senthil Kumar like a balm for scores of wandering mentally ill patients on the city streets. Ever spared a thought to the plight of the forlorn men and women loitering aimlessly on the roadsides? Theirs may be a growing tribe and a ubiquitous presence in most cities. They may be noticed but largely remain ignored. Perhaps the unkempt and scary appearance of these castaways of the society puts off most compassionate but wavering minds. But not T.K.S.Senthil Kumar, to whom caring for the wandering mentally ill (WMI’s) patients has turned out to be a mission. Over the past two decades, Senthil Kumar’s efforts have fed scores of such WMI’s across the city at least one time a day, healed the physical and mental scars of many and reunited some with their families. Senthil Kumar took to social work by choice. "I had decided fairly early in my college days that social work was my calling, but it was a chance encounter with a mentally ill woman while doing my post-graduation in Social Dynamics at the St.Joseph’s College that made me settle on this specific area of work," he says looking back. The well-educated woman was employed in a public sector organisation but was disowned by her family after turning mentally ill. "I found her being ill-treated by a hotel employee and managed to win her confidence after a few exchanges. I put her on to a psychiatrist, helped her ultimately rejoin her family and employment. It was a very satisfying moment." Even before this he had a habit of collecting old clothes to give to the men and women loitering on the streets. "I realised there was a huge need for care for the mentally ill. Studies indicate that nearly 15 per cent of the mentally ill end up on the streets. The last straw comes when the family disowns them. We need to realise that these people are humans too and deserve better treatment. After all, it is a thin line between sanity and insanity," observes Senthil Kumar. At 23, he floated “Anbalayam” though with very little idea of how to find the resources to run the organisation and fulfil his mission. He managed to find a few hoteliers to sponsor at least one meal a day for his friends. Initially, he would collect the food from the hotels and pedal his way on a bicycle in search of the WMIs, who kept moving around. Soon many of these vagabonds presented themselves at specific points at the specified hour. Giving them an occasional wash, haircut and medical assistance soon became part of the job. "I have had no other hobby and always enjoyed whatever I have been doing," says Senthil Kumar, now 42. "It has been a difficult journey all through, but we have managed to do some satisfactory work with the help of scores of individual donors without whom we would not have survived this long," says a humbled Senthil Kumar. Today, Anbalayam works with 40 social workers for the cause of rehabilitating the mentally ill and HIV-infected patients, another focus area that Senthil Kumar chose down the line. He runs a home for mentally ill patients in the City and a Community Care Centre for HIV positive persons with the support of the Tamil Nadu AIDS Control Society. Amidst all this, he managed to get a degree in law to equip him fight better for the legal rights of wandering ill and commercial sex workers. As a platform to trace, rehabilitate and restore wandering mentally ill persons, he launched a website,  . "Tracing the identity and the families of the WMIs is an extremely difficult task. We through the website could help a bit," he explains. An exclusive marriage information bureau for HIV-positive people (  ) has so far managed to solemnise a couple of marriages as well. "The initiative was as an attempt to prevent the spread of HIV through matrimony. Our experience shows that many HIV positive young women were infected through their husbands. Many youth, even if they know they are positive, give into pressure from the family and get married. The spouse often ends up an unsuspecting victim. We hope to check this trend by giving HIV positive youths an opportunity to identify a suitable partner. There are many HIV positive persons looking to get married. We wanted to help them," says Senthil Kumar, a strong votary of making pre-marital HIV test compulsory for youth. Making a short film, ’Azhukku Sattai’ (The Soiled Shirt), on the lives and travails of the wandering mentally ill patients is among his recent ventures. It will be a creative effort of Anbalayam to sensitise people to the predicament of the mentally ill and the family/social support required to mainstream them. "There is a big gap still. We need huge government spending for creating the infrastructure required to rehabilitate the WMIs and HIV positive persons," he feels. The film, directed by D.R.Krishnan and Jayanth, a software engineer-turned-actor in the lead role as WMI, was initially produced with the proceeds raised by selling the used clothes collected as donations from the people. "The unique concept was intended to achieve the objective of spreading the message of the film itself. But that was not enough, we had to make some contribution. The film is almost complete and we hope it will make an impact," he says with enthusiasm.