APPRECIATION: Some of the winners of essay and debate competitions held at Thiagarajar College. (Right) Participants of a workshop in vegetable carving at Madurai Kamaraj University College.    A seven-day special camp of National Service Scheme units 45 and 47 of Lady Doak College was conducted at Thondamanpatti village near Chatirapatti in which about 100 students participated. The students learnt teamwork, hard manual labour, sprit of service and sportsmanship through activities like cleaning the village ground, the graveyard pathway and conducting tutorial for village children. A rally on AIDS awareness, women’s issues and on green environment was taken out through the village. Sports events were conduced for children of the village primary school. In collaboration with Meenakshi Mission Hospital, a free eye camp was conducted for over 100 villagers. Lectures on food and nutrition, career guidance, personality development, domestic violence and on vermin composting were part of the camp. The students were also trained in street theatre. The Department of Economics of Thiagarajar College organised intercollegiate essay and debate competitions in Tamil and English under the auspices of Malcolm Adiseshiah Elizabeth Trust in which 64 students from 13 colleges participated. Academicians, Jayapal, N. Rajasekaran and K. Kamala Thiagarajan, served as judges for the essay competition and retired professors G. Velan, Vijayarajan and Bernard Shah were the judges for the debate. R. Srinivasan, member, State. Planning Commission, addressed the students on the activities of the Trust. He distributed prizes to the following winners: Essay writing for PG students (English): Aswathy Rachel Varghese, School of Economics, Madurai Kamaraj University (first); K. Krithika, Fatima College (second) and R. Amutha, Thiagarajar College (third). Essay writing (Tamil): D. Parameshwari, Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women (first); M. Punitha Lakshmi, Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women (second) and K. Lakshmanan, Thiagarjar College (third). Debate for UG students (Tamil): P. Mahalakshmi and R. Arokiaraja, Arul Anandar College (first); P. Jegathish and S. Ramachandran, The American College (second) and S. Sharmila Banu and M. Asha Banu, MSS Wakf Board College (third). Debate (English): A. Anbukarasi and S. Shobana Rani, Madura College (first); J. Venmathy and K. K. Geetha, Fatima College (second) and C. Yedav Deepam and J. Balamurugan, The American College (third). The Principal, R. Raja Govindasamy, welcomed the gathering and A. Muthian proposed a vote of thanks. The Department of Hotel Management and Catering Science, Madurai Kamaraj University College organised a workshop in vegetable carving. S. Vionthkumar, Chef, SAI Institute of Carving, Chennai demonstrated various carving techniques. He made vegetable bouquets and various shapes out of pumpkin, water melon and other fruits. Mr. Vinothkumar said that skilled professionals were needed by hostels, restaurants and cruise lines in the field of carving. Jorge Jeuchtwanger from Spain delivered a lecture on ‘Ferromagnetic shape memory alloys’ at a programme organised by the Department of Physics of Nadar Mahajana Sangam S.Vellaichamy Nadar College. The Principal S. Asokan presided. P. Gnanadurai, head, department of physics, welcomed the gathering. The vote of thanks was proposed by A. Milton Franklin, reader. The first Graduation Day of Shri Balaji College of Education for Women was held at E. M. G. Yadava Women’s College. The chief guest, S. Shanmugaiah, Controller of Examinations, Madurai Kamaraj University, distributed diplomas to students. The Graduation Day ceremony was declared open by the secretary, S. Muthukrishnan. COMPILED BY S. ANNAMALAI