SENSITISATION: A section of students at the panel discussion on HIV-AIDS awarness at Seethalakshmi Ramaswamy College in Tiruchi on Thursday. —   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter TIRUCHI: Is incidence of HIV-AIDS confined to high risk groups like lorry drivers and commercial sex workers? What about doctors, lawyers, lecturers and others? All are evenly vulnerable to the dreaded disease. Only if people are sensitised to the fact that it is a threat to humanity can social ostracism of people living with HIV-AIDS be tackled, according to A. Thamil, Project Coordinator, Network for Positive People in Tiruchi. The affected people continue to suffer on counts of denial of water from public taps, inheritance rights, and education for children, she said, observing that of late the district administration has come forward to support them. Ms. Tamil was interacting with students of Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College on Thursday as one of the speakers in the panel discussion on ‘HIV-AIDS awareness’ organised by the College’s Red Ribbon Club (RRC). Other speakers were A. Sonalee, Managing Trustee, Transgender Community Action Network, and K. Jeyapal of Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre at Annal Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. Creating youth awareness is of vital importance at this juncture to keep the disease at bay, she said, pointing out that the disease wiped out people in the prime of youth. Emphasising on peer counselling to face the challenge, Ms. Thamil felt there was no reason for the younger generation to feel ashamed of HIV/AIDS. Voluntary testing before marriage was as important as horoscope matching since, in numerous cases, women realised that they have been afflicted by the disease only during pregnancy. Ms. Sonalee exhorted the society to consider transgenders as women. Neglect by own families is the prime cause for the social exclusion of transgenders, she said, observing that their predicament was precipitated by denial of jobs. Explaining the chromosome factor as the determiner of physical and mental conditions of an individual, she said leading a pitiable life was not a matter of choice for transgenders. Ms. Sonalee lauded the Government’s initiatives to create a welfare board for transgenders and provide them with ration cards as right steps. Mr. Jeyapal explained that the disease spread through unsafe sex, syringes and blood transfusion. There were methods to prevent mother-to-child transmission in the womb. Anti-retroviral drugs were available in all district headquarters hospitals, he said. RRC Programme Officer S. Vijayarani and Youth Red Cross Programme Officer Dhanalakshmi also took part in the panel discussion.