Shop for a cause The Dil Se store in Calvathy    The Dil Se store stocks recycled products and the proceeds of the sale go for a social cause Very much like the smiles on the faces of their kids, the Dil Se NGO has set up a bright and cheery store on Bazar Road, Calvathy, that sells recycled products and those sourced from Tamil Nadu , Puducherry and Auroville. An Indo-Swiss NGO Dil Se runs a home for destitute kids on Beach Road, near Kannamali. Cristelle Hart who heads the organisation along with volunteers have put in their efforts to revamp an old room of an antiquated building by the waterfront. The old walls now wear a new, red look and the flooring all spruced up after several washes. An old window painted bright red partitions the space and serves as a shelf too. It has quaint, tiny lanterns and paper lampshades on it. Potted palms act as green partitions. A select area is the gallery where colourful works by the kids of Dil Se are pasted and allows as a space for customers to avail themselves of information about the organisation. This corner has a low table surrounded by upside-down buckets that serve as stools with bright orange cushions on them. The Aluminium buckets purchased as seconds have been painted in bright orange colours by the kids and volunteers and made into stools. “We have recycled almost everything that is a furniture piece here,” says Ravinder Pal Singh, from the organisation, showing the racks made out of tomato, ginger crates. The store is a fine showpiece of how to design, decorate and brighten up spaces economically. Another corner of the store is a small exhibition about a Memory Book workshop that was done over a period of several months with HIV+ women. A rack selling second hand clothes that are as good as new are for Rs. 100 a piece. These are clothes given to Dil Se kids, which don’t necessarily fit them. “And so we want to sell them. We make sure that everything is clean and in very good condition. All second hands are Rs. 100 or less,” says Cristelle So is the case with the baskets full of crocs and cute sandals for kids. These have been kindly gifted by lovers of Dil Se. Coir bags, candles, incense, curios made of palm and coconut fibre, mats, bangles and cute little knick-knacks fill the store. The proceeds of the sale go towards the upkeep of the home. Dil Se store remains closed on Mondays. Contact no. 98950 31123