Orientation: J. Raja Mohammed, secretary, addressing the Red Cross volunteers at the district-level students study camp in Pudukottai.    Staff Reporter PUDUKOTTAI: Despite having been inflicted with the killer-disease of AIDS about a decade ago, she did not lose her hope of longevity through strict adherence to clinical advice. Not just that, she has been creating awareness among women workers of quarries in arts of the district about the preventive measures to check the incidence of this disease. Through her forceful address with a determined vision towards fighting against AIDS, a woman volunteer of a self-help group (SHG) from Iluppur in the district impressed the audience at a function held to mark the day-long ‘Study camp for Youth Red Cross (YRC) volunteers and Programme Officers of colleges’ organised by the District wing of the Youth Red Cross at the H.H. The Rajah’s College here recently. The woman, without any inhibition, explained to the volunteers and the programme officers the ordeals she had to undergo in the initial years when she came to know her destiny. “But, I never lost hope but a sustained guidance from V.C.V. Pandiammal, a counsellor of the Voluntary Counselling Centre at the Government Ranee’s Hospital, created in me an urge to fight the disease and enhance my longevity. “In that process, I decided to check those prone for this disease,” she said amidst applause from the audience. Presiding over the function, the Principal of the college M. Chidambaranathan said that in all 65 YRC volunteers and programme officers from eight colleges and polytechnics in the district would benefit through the programme. The Zonal Co-ordinator, YRC, Bharathidasan University, S. Karuppian, in his address, explained the role of YRC volunteers. The camp aimed at imparting training on first aid techniques and rescue services, with a focus on appliciation of presence of mind. The honorary secretary of Pudukottai district branch of Red Cross Society, J. Raja Mohammed, explained the role of Red Cross movement in the district in providing livelihood assistance to the fishermen hit by Tsunami. The creches being run by the society had attracted even the Canadian Red Cross Society in providing additional infrastructure in the cause of the children of fishermen. The Senior Surgeon, G. Edwin, delivered a lecture on ’first aid and blood donation’ and gave useful tips on providing first aid to those suffering from snake-bite and also persons developing epileptic disorder. The District Organiser S. Viswanathan spoke on the objective of the camp.