REACHING OUT: V.K. Subburaj, Principal Secretary, Health (second from left), releasing the IEC material at the launch of the ACSM Project for TB Control in Chennai on Monday. (From left) Vijaykumar Edward, Director, Health and HIV/AIDS, World Vision, India; Kendra Philips, deputy director, Population, Health and Nutrition, USAID, India; and M.S. Swaminathan, chairman, REACH, are in the picture.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent CHENNAI: The State government has been providing second line drugs to more than 1,300 persons with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis since January-end, V.K. Subburaj, Principal Secretary, Health, said on Monday. He was launching the USAID-funded REACH project for Advocacy, Communications and Social Mobilisation (ACSM) Project for TB Control at the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation here. Talking about the current challenges in treating and controlling TB in the State, Mr. Subburaj said the multi-drug resistant strains were emerging, and due to the non-compliance with drug regimen, a substantial number of people were turning resistant to the first line of drugs. Stressing the importance of following the regimen accurately, he said that with the first line of drugs, the package, provided free, cost the government Rs. 2,000 a person. Taking the drugs properly for the specified period of months would ensure complete cure, but a number of persons stopped taking the drugs once the symptoms vanished. Once they moved to the MDR stage, the second line of drugs cost Rs. 2 lakh and would have to be taken regularly for two years. It was necessary to spread awareness not only among the patients but also DOTS providers of the importance of the regimen. In this context, he appreciated the work being done by REACH in taking the message of the effectiveness of DOTS to the people and facilitating the establishment of linkages between DOTS providers and patients. He also released IEC material prepared for the ACSM Project. M.S. Swaminathan, chairman, REACH, said Tamil Nadu had been proactive in providing community health care. Through catalytic intervention, REACH had mobilised the community to work together against tuberculosis. He stressed the need to spread awareness of tuberculosis to strengthen the case detection and treatment programmes. The ACSM Project hopes to design and implement effective advocacy and communication activities in tuberculosis control. An essential part of the functioning of the project is to facilitate social mobilisation as a way of handling the various issues in tuberculosis control. Ramya Ananthakrishnan, medical co-ordinator, said the project would be implemented in Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Tiruvannamalai. Kendra Philips, deputy director, Population–Health and Nutrition, USAID India, congratulated the Central and Tamil Nadu government on their tuberculosis control work, which she said was being respected globally. Terming the ACSM Project innovative, she said a collaborative approach was needed as neither society nor the government could solve the problem on its own. Subrat Mohanty, technical officer, the Union South East Asia Office, International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, said a national partnership had been forged to build partnerships, provide information to partners, draw up advocacy plans for services and mobilise resources to sustain the partnership to fight tuberculosis. Vijaykumar Edward, Director, Health and HIV/AIDS, World Vision, spoke about the interface that NGOs played in the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme. NGOs complemented the government’s role by involving themselves in innovative ways. Nalini Krishnan, director, Projects, REACH, said advocacy was the keystone in public health programmes. The challenge of the ACSM Project would be to mobilise the community to spread the message and get the community involved. Two completely different sets of factors would be at play in rural and semi-urban centres as against cities as experiments had shown.