Staff Reporter Thiruvananthapuram: The Social Welfare Department has chalked out a plan of action as part of its efforts to integrate HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support activities into various programmes of the department. ‘Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS’ is a major initiative launched by the Kerala State AIDS Control Society, seeking collaboration of various ministries, departments, corporate houses and the people’s representatives in HIV-related issues. At a recent workshop organised to draw up the action plan for sensitising people on HIV, Usha Titus, Secretary, Social Welfare and Project Director of KSACS, said that the department would give priority to welfare issues of HIV positive people when devising programmes. The department has taken the first step by taking up an issue central to the well-being of HIV-positive persons, that of nutrition. A scheme to give nutrition supplements to HIV-positive women and children has been approved by the government. The department has now designated a nodal person, in the rank of Joint Director, to coordinate its HIV-related activities. The draft plan prepared at the workshop has decided to incorporate a module on HIV in all training programmes. To train the staff to be more sensitive to the issues of HIV-positive persons, the department will also develop a core group of trainers. Another novel suggestion that the department has put forth is the development of ‘HIV-positives-friendly’ ICDS (Integrated Child Development Scheme) villages, at least one in every district. It will involve educating each ICDS village so that the community gets a clear understanding of HIV. This approach could encourage people to adopt a non-discriminatory attitude to HIV-positive persons. KSACS is pursuing its HIV-mainstreaming efforts with other departments too. Next in line for sensitisation are the Tourism and Local Self Government departments. The effort was launched as the authorities recognised that the response to HIV can be effective only if it goes beyond the health sector and connects to people from various sectors. Every department is being asked to identify how best they can integrate HIV prevention activities into their core area of work. The message being given out is that HIV is everyone’s business.