Meet Mirjam Dijkxhoorn, a volunteer with The Banyan, from the Netherlands who found true love in Chennai “How is India?”; “Do you eat spicy food?”; “Can you speak Tamil?”; “Have your husband’s family accepted you?”; “How does your mother-in-law treat you?” These are some of the questions asked of Mirjam Dijkxhoorn by people she comes across. “Sometimes, I get asked these questions even by people I meet through work or socially,” she says reflecting on the curiosity of people here. Mirjam came to India in August 2005 as a volunteer for an NGO, and worked on HIV projects in remote villages in Andhra Pradesh. She ran community-based clinics, outreach programmes and hospices for people with HIV. Born and brought up near The Hague in the Netherlands, Mirjam was not used to rural life, but learnt to adapt and eventually grew to love the villages she regularly visits. She became adept at everything from washing her clothes to dealing with the local Panchayat heads. “Some of the panchayat heads were really helpful. They wanted the best for their villages, and were welcoming of the programmes that we initiated. But some were in denial about the extent of HIV, or were unwilling to let us in fearing that they would lose their power.” From time to time, when village life became too much to take, she visited Chennai to spend time with friends. During one of these trips, she met IT entrepreneur Vinod Muthukrishnan whom she eventually married in a Hindu ceremony here in February 2008 and again in a Christian service in October 2008 in the Netherlands. “After meeting Vinod I went back to the Netherlands to complete my MBA and he came to visit me. We decided then that I would come back to India and before I knew it the wedding was fixed, the cards were printed, the hall was booked, the clothes were bought and we were married!” fondly recollects Mirjam. “My Hindu wedding was very enjoyable. I was expected to sit and just smile politely at the guests. But our priest was entertaining and had us all laughing with his jokes. He made the ceremony fun.” Mirjam currently works with The Banyan and lives with Vinod in T. Nagar. “If I had my way, I would clean up the beaches in Chennai and ban two-wheelers,” she proclaims as her wish for the city which she now calls home. “But before that I would get rid of all the slums and give everyone nice houses of course!”