Special Correspondent VELLORE: A total of 45,000 tuberculosis patients have been treated at the District TB Centre in Vellore from 2001 to 2008, according to Collector C. Rajendran. Speaking at an interaction with tuberculosis patients organised by the Field Publicity Office, District TB Centre and Women Organisation for Rural Development (WORD) at the District TB Centre here on Friday, Mr. Rajendran said that the government allotted Rs.50 lakh every year to the District TB Centre. The amount was utilised for identifying patients and providing them treatment, and paying salary of the employees. About 6,000 tuberculosis patients were identified in Vellore district every year, and of them, 2,400 were found to have virus in their sputum. Sixty per cent of those who harbour the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) had a chance of contracting tuberculosis, Mr. Rajendran said. He appealed to the HIV-infected persons to subject themselves to periodic examination for the presence of tuberculosis. Government hospitals in Tamil Nadu were functioning well and good medical facilities were now available in the rural areas too. The public should utilise the facilities and take up treatment for any disease without hesitation, he said. Raja Sivanandam, Deputy Director of Medical Services (TB), appealed to members of women’s self-help groups to volunteer themselves to work as providers of Directly Observed Treatment Short Course (DOTS), involving the direct supervision of the intake of drugs by tuberculosis patients. T. Sivakumar, Field Publicity Officer, Vellore, said that India accounted for 21 per cent of tuberculosis patients in the world. A total of 80 lakh patients had been treated under the Revised National TB Control Programme in India in the last 10 years. M. Durai, District Project Manager, Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society, R. Selvam, district superviser, Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres, spoke. Fathima, Rajendran and Srinivasan, who were cured of tuberculosis after regular intake of drugs provided at the District TB Centre, and Panjamani, Lakshmanan and Kalaivani, current tuberculosis patients, shared their experience on taking tuberculosis drugs.