Perfect poise: Aneela, a dancer, performs a feat in Kuchipudi, at a performance at the World Telugu Conference in Vijayawada on the concluding day on Sunday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: The three-day 8th biennial World Telugu Federation (WTF) meetings concluded amidst fanfare and cheers on Sunday. Veteran actor Jamuna, IMA’s AIDS control committee vice-president Rayapu Ramesh Babu and Murali Krishna of Anu Graphics were felicitated at the valedictory. Transport Minister Kanna Lakshminarayana, Rural Water Supply Minister Pinnamaneni Venkateswara Rao, Gauhati High Court Chief Justice J. Chalameswar and others participated in the valedictory. Mr. Venkateswara Rao said the Centre had recently accorded classical status to Telugu following sustained efforts made by the State Government. Mr. Lakshminarayana said Telugu peethams could be established in varsities to take up research in Telugu language. The University Grants Commission (UGC) would release additional funds for the Peethams as Telugu had been accorded classical status. Reacting to honouring of guests and artistes with shawls, Justice Chalameswar suggested that the old tradition of giving ‘panchala chaapu’ (dhoti) could be revived as it was a symbol of Telugu tradition. Stating that there was an urgent need to spread the illustrious features of the language among the present generation that was fast ignoring them, the speakers expressed the view that such international meets of the Telugu people would help not only propagate the language but also protect it from neglect. They said such conferences would foster friendship and goodwill among the Telugu-speaking people across the globe. The conferences would serve as a catalyst for qualitative interaction on matters relating to Telugu tradition, culture and history, as well as industry and commerce, they felt. The concluding day witnessed a host of programmes, including a literary programme titled ‘Telugu Vijayam’ on the court culture of Vasireddy Venkatadri Naidu and ‘palakariste padyam’, a poetry reading session. Annabattula Mangatayaru and her team from Mummadivaram in East Godavari district presented a traditional ballad, Golla Kalapam, written by poet Tarigonda Vengamamba, while Linga Srinivas and his troupe enthralled the audience with their Jaanapada geyalu (folk songs). Even as the valedictory function concluded, a cultural programme started in the evening. The delegates and others were treated to an enjoyable programme presented by film star Saikumar and a ‘Sangeetha Vibhavari’ by cine music director M.M. Srilekha. A slew of programmes, including literary and cultural, were organised during the last three days. Pouranika Naatakalu (dramas) Kuchipudi Nrityam, musical nite, Tolu bommalata (puppetry), Kolatam, mimicry, and Perini Sivathandavam were some of the programmes that attracted the delegates. Yarlagadda Prabhavati-Sambhuprasad memorial awards were presented to eminent scribe P. Pattabhirama Rao, besides honouring All India Radio (AIR) artiste Gayatri Shankar and several prominent personalities.