sending out a message: Madras Christian College students perform at a street play on the ills of tobacco use at Adyar Cancer Institute on Saturday.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent CHENNAI: Quite a few students from various colleges in the city found a different way to celebrate Valentine’s Day on Saturday. They sent out a message: ‘Don’t hurt your heart; let it be safe and healthy to love one and all.’ Extending them a helping hand in their endeavour for a healthy cause were organisations working for a healthy society. The day for participants began with the launch of ‘Tobacco Free Youth’ programme at Adyar Cancer Institute by Commissioner of Police K. Radhakrishnan. Students from 12 colleges, including Valliammal, Madras Christian College, Government Arts College Nandanam, Sir Muthukumaraswami, Sir Theyagaraya, Presidency, Loyola, Pachaiyappa’s, and Kandasami Naidu, put up street plays on prevention of tobacco use in 120 places across the city. The street plays were staged in colleges, hospitals, parks, markets, bus termini, theatres and important traffic junctions. Tobacco Control Task Force – National Service Scheme, Tobacco Cessation Centre (TCC), Adyar Cancer Institute (WIA), World Health Organisation and Need Trust, joined hands in taking forward the message that passive smoking is equally harmful, said E. Vidhubala, principal investigator of TCC. At Ispahani Centre, Nungambakkam, the Madras Christian Council of Social Service along with the US Consulate organised an event ‘Celebrate life’ focussed on preventing spread of HIV/AIDS, particularly among slum dwellers. Red Ribbon Club members participated in the programme that was addressed by Ragini Gupta, Consul for Cultural Affairs at the Consulate in Chennai, and choreographer John Britto. The chief guests distributed prizes and certificates to winners of a poster and poetry competition for school and college students. The contests were held as part of World AIDS Day observed on December 1 every year. Ethiraj College student R. Ramalakshmi received a special prize for her poem on old age homes residents titled ‘Arivom, Arivippom and Aravanaippom’ (Know, inform and embrace). Members of self-help group Vidiyal were given organ donation cards.