A. A. Michael Raj Coimbatore: Lack of love and support can cause misery in families but counselling has the potential to help both adults and children cope with problems ranging from misunderstanding to learning difficulties. A. Suresh and N. Ramathilakam, Family Counsellors, Mano Shanthi Family Counselling Centre, told The Hindu that this was evident from the cases that they had handled over the last few months. “People have feelings and emotions. They feel pain when they do not have anybody in whom they can confide their problems,” said Mr. Suresh. “We treat our clients with respect, offer them support and give them motivation and encouragement. They can tell us whatever they want to say, however long it takes. They know we will maintain confidentiality,” he observed. “All schools and colleges should have a counsellor,” added Ms. Ramathilakam. “We should create awareness about life skills and study skills, besides giving pre-marital counselling to prevent problems.” “If it is done in a systematic manner, people can learn how to face and solve life problems. We should create awareness on various topics at panchayat level, for which there can be a full-time counsellor,” she added. Mano Shanthi (Phone: 2216820) is a unit of the Young Women’s Christian Association (YWCA) and is aided by the Central Social Welfare Board. All services are free of cost for people of all religions and castes, without any discrimination. The centre works 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on week days and till 1 p.m. on Saturdays. One of the cases handled by Mano Shanthi was that of a young man who did not get along with his parents, who was involved in a romantic problem and who also exhibited anti-social behaviour. He was susceptible to peer group pressure and had a need to exhibit heroism in front of others. With no self-confidence and lack of concentration, he could not adapt to social situations. However, professional counselling enabled him to understand his problems, deal with them and begin to cope with life so that his academic performance and social skills improved, the counsellors said. Mr. Suresh said that Mano Shanthi handled about 20 cases a month and many of them were about problems between husbands and wives owing to issues such as maladjustment, egotism, suicidal thoughts, sexual harassment, dowry demands, extra-marital affairs, alcohol addiction and interference of in-laws. “Some cases cannot be solved through therapy and there is need for psychiatric care or legal assistance,” Ms. Ramathilakam said. Such cases are referred to the Mano Shanthi committee which includes a psychiatrist, a psychologist, a lawyer, a helpline counsellor, a court counsellor, a human rights activist, inspectors of all-women police stations and a representative of self-help groups. Mr. Suresh and Ms. Ramathilakam said that Mano Shanthi conducted outreach activities for those in schools, colleges, industries, associations and rural areas. Topics depended on the needs of the people and included personal hygiene, mental health, family welfare, de-addiction, female foeticide, child labour, pre-marital issues, and HIV and AIDS. In addition to this, the organisation offered field-work training for students doing Master of Social Work (MSW) in institutions in Coimbatore and nearby areas.