Correspondent CUTTACK: The Central Red Cross Blood Bank here, the only unit of its kind in the state having blood component separation facility is in deep financial crisis for what is being viewed as arm-twisting attitude of National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO). Naco’s Orissa branch—the state AIDS control society which supports the blood banks by providing recurring grants to develop facilities for checking the dreaded disease, has changed its policy of grant putting the Cuttack blood bank in some more trouble. Naco used to provide Rs 12 lakhs every year to the blood bank to meet its purchase of consumables like blood collection bags and kits for screening tests. But during the ongoing financial year, Naco provided only Rs 3 lakhs and said the remaining Rs 9 lakhs would be provided in kind. “Even the grant of Rs 3 lakhs had a rider that the amount would be spent for purchase of only glassware and plastic ware,” said blood bank advisor B N Mishra. And according to official sources, the blood bank for the entire year requires glassware and plastic ware of only Rs 1 lakh. “We are sure the remaining Rs 2 lakhs under this head would be returned back as we cannot utilise the amount,” said blood bank director Bibhudendu Pati. But what is more concerning is the fact that while the current fiscal is coming to an end, the blood bank has received consumables of only Rs 2 lakhs out of Rs 9 lakhs. “Moreover, the consumables received till date such as blood bags and other kits are of inferior quality,” Mishra alleged. “We require good quality of blood bags with adequate amount of anti-coagulants to keep the blood preserved for maximum number of days. But the blood bags provided by Naco were not up to the prescribed standard as a result many precious units of blood are getting destroyed. The blood bank last year had condemned and destroyed around 389 units of blood, sources said. Similarly, the blood bags provided by Naco are of 450 ml capacity or are either multi-pouch bag which is of least use. “For collecting 450 ml of blood, the donor has to be of 55 kg or more and we don’t need multi-pouch bags very often as ours is a stand-only blood bank,” Pati said. The Director also pointed out that due to financial constraints; the blood bank is not able to take up any developmental work and is facing acute shortage of funds to meet the annual requirements like salary for the employees or taking up any training programmes.