Staff Reporter TIRUCHI: Bharathidasan University, in association with Anna University, Chennai, and Tamil Nadu Blood Transfusion Council, is all set to figure in the Guinness Book of World Records and the Limca Book of Records by mobilisation of 20,000 units of blood in record time on February 20. The current Guinness record is held by Dera Sacha Sauda in Sirsa, Haryana. Its blood donation drive on October 10, 2004 in Bapu Ji village in Sriganganagar attracted 17,921 donors. The National Service Scheme and Youth Red Cross wings of Bharathidasan University have already identified 19,000 student donors belonging to 96 colleges. Only those weighing more than 45 kilograms have been chosen. An additional 1,000 students have also registered, it is learnt. All donors are to receive certificates from the Council and the University. Stating that Tamil Nadu alone requires six lakh units of blood every year, Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University M. Ponnavaikko said that besides the eight districts in the university’s jurisdiction, blood donation camps would be conducted in centres in Kancheepuram and Villupuram districts and the blood supplied to about 70 blood banks in 23 districts. The university has taken the support of Lions Club and Tamil Nadu AIDS Control Society as well. Of the over 50 centres where the blood donation will be made in the presence of observers comprising police officials, local body representatives and mediapersons, Tiruchi district alone accounts for 16. All the donors have been sensitised to the fact that the amount of fluid lost in blood donation will recoup within a few hours, Prof. Ponnavaikko said. Replying to a query, he said that the focus of the initiative would be on service as well as record. Mechanisms have been put in place to compile data on an hourly basis, he said, referring to the importance accorded for documentation. The computerised database of names, addresses and contact numbers of the donors would be linked to the university website, the Vice-Chancellor said.