Staff Reporter Srikakulam: The Youth Club of Bejjipuram (YCB), in partnership with the Hindusthan Latex Family Planning Promotion Trust and the Bill Gates Foundation, which had been engaged in creation of awareness programmes relating to prevention of HIV/AIDS in the district since 2004, organised a Media Advocacy workshop at Press Club here on Wednesday. Coordinator of YCB Siva Mohan Prasad, addressing media representatives, stated that the incidence of HIV/AIDS in the district was 1.5 per cent. He said women sex workers, homosexuals and transgender population were the high-risk groups that were instrumental in spreading the virus. The YCB had been interacting with high-risk groups on an individual basis to educate them on the fast-spreading virus. During the past four years, the YCB had identified 1,800 women sex workers and 900 homosexuals including transgenders in the course of their awareness programmes at several places in the district. The YCB activists were able to convince those engaged in sex work to use condoms in a bid to prevent the spread of AIDS. Several demonstrations had been organized for effectively using condoms during sexual encounter with sex workers. Exhibitions educating the general public on the use of condoms were part of the awareness campaigns of the NGO. Coordinator Siva Mohan Prasad appealed to media representatives to refrain from publishing the names and photographs of AIDS victims while publishing educative articles on the subject, in view of the social stigma attached to the disease. The YCB, he said, was running three special clinics for HIV/AIDS victims. He said due to the efforts put in by the organisation the percentage of those suffering from venereal diseases had during the past four years declined from 41 per cent to 20 per cent in the district. The YCB has been engaged in creating awareness among truck drivers and the highway travellers by operating condom boxes at petrol bunks, high way restaurants, dhabas and bus stations. The organization is also extending a support programmes to families of AIDS victims.