Non-governmental organisations across the State are known for reaching the unreached and exploring alternative systems in health, education and energy. In Theni district, which is predominantly an agriculture dependent region, NGOs are involved in a big way in social uplift, emancipation of women, care for the disabled and environment protection. Rural Area Development Trust (RUADT) is a social service organisation working with the disabled population in the district since 1991. It runs the Balamurugan Day Care Centre for Mentally Challenged Children. Its other programmes include a spastic cerebral palsy children project and parents training programme under National Trust, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Centre for Development and Communication Trust (CENDECT) has been implementing project for the social, economic and intellectual development of weaker sections since 1983. It concentrates on community agriculture, community health, action research, income generation for women, mother and child care, education and sustainable farming. It has completed 30 projects with community participation and there are 17 ongoing projects, including a residential school for SC/ST children, creche for working mothers’ children, family counselling centre, a 15-bedded de-addiction centre and a farmers’ field school. CENDECT Krishi Vigyan Kendra is an agricultural training research and extension centre sponsored by Indian Council of Agricultural Research for the benefit of farmers in Theni district. It aims at transferring farm worthy technologies to farmers, farm women, rural youth and extension workers through training and demonstration. It is the convener of Dynamic Network, a network of 900 NGOs in Tamil Nadu. Endogenous Spices Tourism Project in Kurangani is aimed at strengthening indigenous collective identities of mountain communities and recognising the link between principles of sustainable development and indigenous knowledge. The project is implemented in Kurangani hills of the Western Ghats by Green, an NGO from Chinnamanur, as the implementing partner. Green aims to promote innovative approaches to build livelihood opportunities in Kurangai region. The project is community based and will pave way for building the endogenous capacities of mountain people in the long run. The NGO has identified priorities for protection of forest biodiversity in the Western Ghats that has been declared by Conservation International as one of the 25 Global Biodiversity Hotspots. The project team has carried out a biological survey in Kurangani region to ascertain the conceptual basis of the ecosystem approach in relation to the concept of sustainable forest management. The outcome of the Bilogical Survey is the "Ecosystem Profile of Kurangai" which recommends ecosystem approach to the management of forests in Kurangani region. Lead Society, another NGO, is involved in social service at Periyakulam and surrounding villages to improve the livelihood of rural women and poor farmers. It has created 200 self-help groups to create an awareness of socio-economic and medical issues. One hundred and four SHGs have got direct loans to the tune of Rs.1.24 crore from State Bank of India and Canara Bank for commercial activities and small scale units. Maitri is a civil society organisation that undertakes development initiatives to positively impact the lives of the poor, marginalised and excluded sections of society. Its activities are spread over 20 panchayats of Theni block. Its activities include HIV/AIDS, TB and cervical cancer prevention and control programmes; women empowerment, child development, economic development, geriatric care and panchayat raj programmes. It is also working as communication facilitator for five southern districts in promoting IEC. The Anbagam Children’s Village, a home for the children from HIV/AIDS infected and affected families, is run by Maitri. At present there are 50 children staying here. It also has an old age home with 40 inmates.