Special Correspondent KANNUR: ‘Suraksha’ project for sexual health security as envisaged under the Targeted Intervention Project as per the National AIDS Control Programme Phase III of the National AIDS Control Organisation was launched here on Saturday. District Collector Ishita Roy inaugurated the project at the Malabar Cancer Care Society (MCCS) Hall here. The project was being launched here under the auspices of the MCCS with the technical support of the Kerala State AIDS Control Society. MCCS president D. Krishnanadha Pai said that the selection of non-governmental organisations for the implementation of the third phase of the programme had been done on the basis of assessment made as per international standards by an expert committee appointed by the government. The MCCS here had met the standards and had been identified for implementing the Suraksha project in Kannur District. The project initially would target 5,000 migrant construction workers and hotel workers in Kannur town and nearby panchayats. The prevention of new infection in high risk groups was a major thrust in the National AIDS Control programme Phase III. The most effective means of controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS is through the implementation of the Targeted Interventions among the person most vulnerable to HIV/AIDS such as female sex workers, homosexuals and transgenders, Mr. Pai said. The project also envisaged focused interventions among the bridge populations of truckers and migrants since an important source of HIV-related vulnerability was mobility and migration. As part of the project, health education, counselling, medical camps and condom promotion were being undertaken through peer groups formed from among the identified workers at the place of residence over the pockets where they are located, according to the organisers of the initiative. Kannur municipal chairman B.P. Farooque presided over the function. Dennis Joseph, Joint Director, Targeted Intervention, Kerala State AIDS Control Society, Thiruvananthapuram, was also present at the function.