Koniamman Temple: Car festival, Thiruveedhi Ula, religious discourse and Pattimandram, temple premises, Big Bazaar Street, 6.30 p.m. Sri Gopala Vittala Trust: Nagarahalli Sri Raghavendrachar speaks on Srimad Bhagavatham, Sri Vyasaraja Mutt, RG Street, 9 a.m. Sri Aurobindo Devotees Prayer Group: Writing of Savithiri Episode, Sri Annai Meditation Centre, West Power House Road, 10 a.m. Kasturi Sreenivasan Trust: 4th KSTs Spectrum 2009 – series painting exhibition, Trust Art Gallery, Avanashi Road, 9.30 a.m. Avinashilingam University for Women: Science Day celebrations, 10 a.m.; Seminar on ERP Way, MBA Seminar Hall, 1.45 p.m.; Seminar on Emotional Intelligence, 3 p.m. Christ The Kind Polytechnic College: Two-day national conference on “Power Crisis-Methods of Harnessing Alternative Energy Sources”, 9.30 a.m. Department of Mathematics-Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science: UGC-sponsored national conference on applications of differential equations, 10 a.m. Nehru Institute of Engineering and Technology: NSS camp adoption of Thirumalayampalayam village, 10 a.m. Sri Aravinda Annai Nursery and Primary School: Fancy dress competition for kids, school premises, Kannappa Nagar, 11 a.m. Sankara Institute of Management Science: One-day seminar on Global Meltdown and its Impact on Indian Financial Systems, college premises, 9.30 a.m. SIEMA: Interaction with Urvashi Ramanarine, First Secretary, High Commission of Trinidad and Tobago, SIEMA building, Race Course, 10 a.m. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan: Special lecture on “Netru, Indru, Naalai”, Bhavan’s Seminar Hall, R.S. Puram, 6 p.m. Department of Sociology and Population Studies of the Department of Extension and Career Guidance of Bharathiar University: Workshop on Social Science Research Methodology, 11 a.m. Coimbatore Productivity Council: Training programme on First Aid, Council Conference Hall, Race Course, 9 a.m. Kovai Kalaimagal College of Arts and Science: Inter-department competitions and paper presentation, 9.30 a.m. COINDIA: Signing of Joint Working Arrangement – MoU with Nehru Institute of Engineering and Technology, COINDIA Board, Room, Race Course, 3.30 p.m. Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology: Guest Lecture on International Business Travel, 9.30 a.m. Sankara College of Science and Commerce - Department of Catering Science and Hotel Management: Three-day workshop on Fish Curry Market – South Indian Coastal Cuisine, seminar hall, 9.30 a.m.; Meeting on How to Increase Memory Power, seminar hall, 9 a.m. RVS College of Arts and Science: Social mela, Sulur college premises, 10.30 a.m. RVS College of Engineering and Technology: Awareness programme on Energy conservation, security and non-conventional energy, A. Thangavelu, Chief Engineer, TNEB takes part, 9.30 a.m. Poompuhar: Expo of handicraft items made of wood and metal, showroom premises, Big Bazaar Street, 10 a.m. Hindusthan College of Arts and Science: Workshop on Recession and International Financial Management, MBA Conference Hall, 9.30 a.m. Bharathiar School of Management and Entrepreneur Development: Seminar on Management Education: Emerging Domains and Innovative Clusters, university premises, 10 a.m. Maharaja Arts and Science College: Seminar on Business Ethics, Arasur, 10.30 a.m. SNR Institute of Management Sciences: Guest Lecture on Student Empowerment, 10.30 a.m. SNS College of Technology: Red Ribbon Club awareness programme on HIV/AIDS, college premises, 2 p.m. PSG College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of workshop on Basic Techniques in Cell Culture and Virology, Sathyam Hall, 9.30 a.m. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya Institute of Agriculture and Rural Development and NABARD: State-level seminar on Capacity Building for Adoption of Technology (CAT) – Training on Organic Farm, seminar hall, 9.30 a.m. SNR Sons College: Inauguration of NSS special camp, Little Flower School, Kaveaty Naidu Layout, Sowripalayam, 9 a.m. SNS College of Technology: Valedictory of ISTE-NSTEDB Entrepreneurship Awareness Camp for Students, RNG Memorial Hall, 3 p.m. Karpagam Arts and Science College: Inauguration of awareness education on ‘Effects of Deforestation’, primary school, Chinnakallipatti, 6 p.m. Nehru Arts and Science College: All-India inter-collegiate cultural fiesta - Fantabulous ’09, Nehru Gardens, 10.30 a.m.; rock show by Rajeev and troupe, college auditorium, 5.30 p.m.