BANGALORE: Raising the hopes for lakhs of HIV-positive persons across the country, Bangalore-based Narayana Hrudayalaya has done a breakthrough by successfully conducting a heart surgery on a fully blown HIV-positive patient. Thirty-five-year-old Shankar (name changed) met with an accident four years ago. While getting treatment for his injured leg, he contracted the deadly HIV-virus during a blood transfusion. Over a period of time, the blood clot in the leg began to spread to the heart and lungs. The pressure on the lungs began on show on the right side of the heart, which began to fail. Barring his wife, everyone in his family deserted him. "When he came to us two weeks ago, he was almost bedridden. We conducted the Pulmonary Endarterectomy. Since he was HIV positive, we had to take extra precautions while conducting the surgery. We use nearly 100 needles and even if one gets infected, it is dangerous. But we decided to take on the challenge and operated him," Dr Devi Shetty, chief cardiac surgeon at Narayana Hrudayalaya told The Times of India. Narayana Hrudayalaya does the second largest number of this surgery in the world. "The idea was to tell the world that it is safe to operate HIV patients too. There is no doubt that it is risky and extra precautions must be ensured during the surgery," Shetty said. IT IS RE-BIRTH FOR ME Many hospitals refused to treat me because I was carrying the deadly virus. No one even cared if I died. It was not my fault that I became HIV-positive. I was almost bedridden. Dr Shetty is like God to me. He has given me new life. All I want to say is that there is nothing to fear in life. Being HIV-positive is a different issue but other health problems need to be treated as well. Just have courage to fight... (he breaks down). HOW WAS IT DONE During the six-hour open heart surgery, the body temperature is reduced to 18 degree (the normal temperature is 37 degree). The surgery is conducted in circulatory arrest, where the patient's body is frozen and entire blood collected to a reservoir. According to Dr Shetty the entire operation is conducted when the body is bloodless. Post-surgery the blood is pumped back into the body and the temperture is restored to 37 degrees. 