 ALLAHABAD: The rising number of AIDS cases raise a serious concern in the society. With no treatment available for it, prevention is the only way to control AIDS cases. Add to this social stigma, ostracism and multiple legal issues, AIDS gets more complex, specially in countries like India.   HIV the etiological agent of AIDS belongs to the Lentivirus subgroup of the family retroviridae. It is a challenging issue across the world. The virus is present in blood, tissue and all body fluid of infected persons. HIV is spread by sexual contact with infected persons (heterosexual or homosexual), by blood and blood products, and from infected mother to babies.   About 85% AIDS cases are due to sexual contact 3.80%, 2.05%, 3.34% and 6.46% due to prenatal transmission, blood transfusion, injecting durg users and others respectively.   The World AIDS Day is being observed since December 1, 1988, and aims at raising money, increasing awareness, fighting prejudice and improving education. The theme for this year is "Universal access and human rights". World AIDS Day reminds people that HIV still exists and a lot still needs to be done.   Head, department of forensic medicine, MLN Medical College, Dr US Sinha says, "In a study conducted by our department in 2009-10 shows that 75% men and 25% women came for HIV tests here. Out of these, 18.6% men and 12% women were found HIV positive. The maximum HIV+ cases were in the age group of 25-34 years.   As far as distribution of persons suffering from psychosomatic disorder is concerned, over 94% people express shock, stigmatisation (76%), discrimination (70%), family violence (47%), social violence (31%), family rejection (41%), social rejection (64%), depression (88%), loneliness (76%), fear (100%) and suicidal tendency (58%).   Dr Sinha says as the incidence and public awareness of required immunodeficiency syndrome increases, the ethical, legal and regulatory mechanism too are becoming significant.   In August 1989, the AIDS Prevention Bill was moved in Parliament. The section 4 of the bill mandates every registered physician to report each case of HIV positive patient to health authorities, but does not provide a confidentially clause.   Section 7 of the Bill however, requires health authorities to undertake counselling, health education and specialised treatment. But this is of no avail if confidentiality is not guaranteed.   Section 5 talks of precautionary measures to curb the spread of infection.   As far as law and regulations governing HIV infected persons is concerned, Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees right to life and personal liberty to every HIV positive person. Besides, it's the fundamental right of every AIDS patient to have access to proper treatment.   An HIV infected person also has the right to privacy. The right to privacy of a person has been stated in Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Right, Article 17 of the international covenant on civil and political rights and Article 21 of the Constitution.   Moreover, Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution guarantee equality and provide against discrimination in employment respectively. Article 16 prohibits discrimination in public employment on grounds of religion, caste, creed, sex, colour etc. 