 KOLKATA: An HIV explosion might be waiting to happen in Kolkata. One per cent of the city's 15,000 street children (in the age group of 5-14) are HIV-positive, but were not aware of the fact that they were carrying the deadly virus, reveals a survey conducted by the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED), Kolkata.   Most victims did not even know how the disease got transmitted or its symptoms and had contracted the lethal virus through sexual abuse, says the survey. While around 4% suffered from other sexually transmitted diseases like syphilis, nearly 10% of these youngsters faced sexual abuse before turning 16.   Titled Non-tobacco Substance Use, Sexual Abuse, HIV and Sexually Transmitted Infection Among Street Children in Kolkata', the study was carried out across 58 municipal wards of the city. More than 550 street children, who have no family, were interviewed and observed from 2007 to 2009. Random blood samples were collected to check the prevalence of diseases like HIV, hepatitis B and sexually transmitted diseases. The results have left the team of researchers shocked.   "One per cent of these children were HIV-positive which is a big number. Being marginalised and without any access to medical care, they will probably never come to know of their HIV status. Or, by the time they do, they will have infected others. This is an alarming situation since the urban homeless often act as a bridge between the infected population and those who are at risk. We need immediate intervention to check a potential epidemic," said Kamalesh Sarkar, deputy director, division of epidemiology, NICED. Sarkar led a five-member research team for the study.   While no specific age of the HIV victims could be established from the random survey, all were below 16 years. Inquiring into the reasons behind the spread of the virus, the researchers found that most had faced sexual abuse. "A minor percentage might have got the virus from sex workers. It is quite possible that they passed it on to others since both sexual abuse and promiscuity was common among street children. It is unlikely that any had got the virus from their parents," said Sarkar.   The study reveals that while 26% of male street children faced sexual abuse before they turned 15, 13% of the girls who faced abuse were above 15 years. Around 13% of the boys who visited sex workers suffered from sexually transmitted diseases.   "Without any shelter or protection, these children will continue to be vulnerable. Moreover, they had no idea of HIV or that they could end up carrying the virus and infect others. Since there has never been any such study in the past, it is difficult to say if the number is rising. But unless steps are taken, it will definitely spiral and pose a serious health hazard which we are probably not ready to deal with," said Baishali Bal, one of the researchers.   Less than half of the street children got two square meals a day, more than 85% slept in public places and earned less than Rs 1,000 a month. Substance abuse, the study disclosed, was extremely high among them. Thirty per cent used non-tobacco substances like adhesives, brown sugar, cocaine and alcohol.   NICED has proposed shelters and support centres for street children at railway stations. "It is at places like stations and markets that they generally tend to camp in search of work and food. We have written to the railway ministry to join hands with us for shelters at the stations," said Sarkar.      