    A special emphasis during the discussion was on gender norms. The researchers emphasised the need to produce greater gender equality and to shift norms that place aggression, violence and sexual exploitation within the masculine domain and are aggravated under the influence of alcohol.   Ongoing research in different countries suggests that women's risk of gender-based and sexual violence is also increased by their partner's alcohol consumption. Therefore, without addressing gender issues, efforts to reduce alcohol-related sexual-risk behaviour might only be partly successful.   Speaking at the conference, Dr Ravi Verma, regional director, International Center for Research on Women (ICRW), said, "Gender is missing from many alcohol related as well as HIV related interventions. Interventions of any kind in the development sector must be conscientious of gender. Failure to do so may reinforce existing discrimination against women and girls."   According to him, the majority of people who go for paid sex are problem drinkers and that they don't even use condoms. Some of the eminent researchers and subject experts who participated in the conference included Dr Kendall Bryant, director, Alcohol and HIV/AIDS Research, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, Dr Jean J. Schensul, founding director, Institute for Community Research and Dr KS Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.   The revelations of the studies presented by the key researchers prove that alcohol plays a direct and indirect role in promoting situations and decisions leading to unprotected sex with multiple partners in the general population and in vulnerable populations including mobile workers, and female sex workers, and those infected with HIV.   The conference was organised by ICRW, in partnership with the Public Health Foundation of India, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the Institute for Community Research. They had brought together programme specialists and researchers from India and neighbouring South Asian countries as well as US researchers working in India. 