MUMBAI: Acting on a labour union's demand, the Maharashtra government will soon unveil a HIV-friendly workplace policy. It will be voluntary for the two-crore-plus workforce in private establishments and factories to undergo HIV test, but the policy will ensure that no one faces stigma or is given the pink slip if tested positive.The policy may also pave the way for employees to receive financial support from their employers for treatment, which is expensive. Stating that the policy will be introduced in three months, Maharshtra labour secretary Kavita Gupta said, "We are fine-tuning a policy that will ensure that there is no discrepancy to any of the person with HIV at his workplace. It will provide employment and social security to HIV-positive persons."Labour minister Hasan Mushrif said, "Many of the unions requested the labour department to conduct HIV test for the labourers. The proposal is under consideration. The decision is yet to be taken on the issue."Incidentally, the first case of AIDS was reported in Mumbai in 1986. According to National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), 14 districts of Maharashtra figure in the all-India list of 49 districts with high prevalence of HIV/AIDS.There are nearly two crore labourers (excluding farm and domestic workers) in Maharashtra. According to the state labour department, it will be mandatory for all the factories and establishments to adopt the HIV-friendly workplace policy. However, it will be the labourer's discretion whether he/she wants to undergo an HIV test.Those workers who opt for the HIV check-up and test positive can avail the benefit of the policy. "Those who do not turn up for the check-up will be deprived of the benefits," said a health official.Justifying department's move, Gupta said, "The aim is not to get information on number of HIV-afflicted labourers. Its aim is to provide financial stability (employment) and social security to those who test positive."She said the introduction of the policy will help earlier detection of HIV. "Earlier the detection, better the chances of healthy survival of the victim," said Gupta. 