 LUVKNOW: Even before the virus could affect their health, the HIV stigma has eclipsed their lives. Innocent children born to positive parents facing discrimination and insecurity fail to reason their agony. Over 40 such children have broken their silence. Using comics strip they have shared their feelings and urged for a humane treatment.   Some of these comics strips would be displayed with the Red Ribbon Express (RRE) in August. The comics were prepared by them at a workshop organised by World Comics India. Supported by Unicef, the workshop was held at the Nehru Yuva Kendra and concluded on Wednesday.   Suresh and Sita are only examples to show how children born to positive people are ostracised. At first glance, they appear like any ordinary siblings. But a little probe makes one realise that the world has really fallen apart for these HIV positive children.   "At an age when what they need the most is decent living, these kids are fighting the deadly disease,'' said Ramesh Srivastava, a volunteer working for kids like the duo. Their parents were thrown out of their native village in east UP.   Construction site owned by their Chandigarh-based maternal uncle became their home after the death of their parents. Kids were made to work like labourers in lieu of two meals a day. But when their aunt came to know about them being HIV positive, she drove them out.   The kids, in an attempt to return to their roots, reached Lucknow and were seen by policemen near Itaunja. The cops sent them to an orphanage and informed protection home authorities who sent them to Shanti Niketan of Lucknow, one of the few places in the country which takes care of AIDS orphans.   Now 12, Suresh has been able to reason the treatment he got till he reached this home. However, he is not ready to feel `pitiable' on account of this virus he inherited from his parents. "It's not my fault,'' he affirms and tells the same to his sister. His comic-strip also says the same.   "This is the basic message that needs to be disseminated across the society to ensure a future for kids like Sita and Suresh. People sensitive to their plight can help in re-integrating them with the society by improving their living conditions and ensuring economic and social autonomy,'' said Augustine Veliath of Unicef.   Besides producing a tool to sensitise people and create awareness, the kids had a great time. "We began with learning to make faces using alphabets O and T. While O becomes the outline of the face, eyebrows, nose and mouth are sketched out of the T,'' said Mohit, who actively participated in the workshop.   Sharad Sharma, founder World Comics India who taught the kids how to draw, added that with a little practice, children switch over from simple faces to the ones carrying expressions. "The trainees were then taught to conceptualise a story based on an issue with a message, imagine characters, think of a catchy beginning and an end with an impact,'' he said.       