 PUNE: It was at a matrimonial meet for the HIV-positive in Pune on August 1, that 36-year-old Santosh S and 34-year-old Geetanjali P decided to marry each other. They tied the nuptials in the presence of close family and friends in the city on Wednesday, that was World AIDS Day. The couple's happiness was evident. "Now I have a company. I have somebody to look after and be looked after by. No one can give you better support than your wife," said Santosh, who works as a security guard. A few years ago, he lost his first wife to HIV, and he had to hand over his 10-year-old daughter to her grandparents in Mumbai. Geetanjali, a widow, who had to face prejudice in the household once her in-laws found out about her condition in 2002, chose to settled down despite her circumstances. "I have been independent right from the beginning.   I have been earning my own money and have never depended on my parents or siblings for anything. But it was my mother's unwavering support that helped me take the decision to settle down once again. I want to remain self-reliant, come what may," said Geetanjali, who works at a tuberculosis centre in Hadapsar. Her 11-year-old son, from her previous marriage, will live with the couple.   "We have decided not to have children. My wife and I are going to take care of each other, follow a disciplined lifestyle and lend each other as much moral and emotional support possible," said Santosh. Disha, an initiative by Deep Griha Society to help HIV-positive people, was instrumental in organising the matrimonial meet in August. Santosh and Geetanjali also sought pre-marital counselling with Disha. "That day, some 12 couples announced their plans to marry. Santosh and Geetanjali are one of the first to get married. For the last few months, they were being counselled on treatment, medication and healthy living," said Avinash Chakranarayan, coordinator of Disha. The couple wants to pass on a positive message to people living with HIV. "There is nothing wrong with this condition. Consider yourself as normal and healthy and continue living whole-heartedly.   Young HIV-positive people should certainly consider getting married. It's your positive attitude that will make all the difference," said Geentajali. Names changed to protect identities. 