 ALLAHABAD: A 11-member team of UPSACS (Uttar Pradesh State AIDS Control Society) Lucknow, has visited HIV testing centres including PPTCT (Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission) unit at SRN hospital, Blood Bank of SRN hospital and ICTC (Integrated Counselling & Testing Centre) units at MLN hospital, Colvin hospital and Teliyarganj with an aim to inspect and record the facilities being provided to help detect and counsel HIV/AIDS patients.   The UPASCS officials team while visiting ICTC units, being set up to counsel and treat HIV positive people, have asked the officials of district AIDS Programme Control Unit (DAPCU) to receive feedback from patients once they visit these ICTC units and maintain the records properly.   The officials pointed out that the DAPCU officials should also cross check whether a patient, after being tested positive for HIV/AIDS and further being asked to visit ART (Anti-Retro Therapy) centre for treatment, is visiting the centres or not and make efforts to establish proper communication in this regard.   The officials further stressed on maintaining proper records. Also, the officials directed to install proper display boards at all ICTC centres so that people coming for tests and counselling don't face any problems. The idea is to generate maximum awareness. A similar record should also be kept for patients registering for counselling.   Stressing the need of records, nodal officer, DAPCU, Dr OP Sahi said "UPSACS officials have strictly mentioned the need to upgrade the facilities at ICTC units and proper maintenance of records".   As a high-powered NACO (National AIDS Control Organisation) team is scheduled to visit city on December 9 to monitor the situation, officials of UPSACS and DACPU are running from pillar to post to complete the records.   Pointedly, stress has been paid to Allahabad district as it has been placed under sensitive A category list of five districts that includes Banda and Etawah and officials would be taking frequent rounds to take stock of the situation.   "The unprecedented rise in HIV/ AIDS cases has left the authorities perplexed and they have been stressing on to update the records on frequent intervals so that clear picture could be accessed" said a senior official adding that "officials would be taking the identified pockets under its scanner and studying the causes behind the increasing rate of HIV transmission."   