 MANGALORE: Exit lorry drivers, and construction and manual labourers, enter Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) workers in to the world of AIDS! May sound strange, but a recent survey carried out by Population Services International (PSI), a NGO involved in action against HIV/AIDS, has categorised KPO workers as the next major sector that would contribute to higher prevalence of reported AIDS case in Karnataka.   Quoting this PSI survey report, Gurudas M Bhat, additional Labour Commissioner at the inaugural function of Hassan regional level dissemination workshop of National policy on HIV/AIDS and World of Work here on Tuesday, said KPO workers seem to be more vulnerable to contract AIDS as much as lorry drivers, and labourers were until the recent past. The latter category compared to the former seems to be more aware of AIDS, he said.   Observing that most of the workers in KPO sector, including IT and ITES, BPO and call centres were youths, and staying alone, he said it is natural that they might try to fulfil their biological needs without paying heed to the consequences. Sustained awareness campaign conducted for lorry drivers, and construction workers is bearing fruits and most of them overcoming inhibitions prefer to go in for protected sexual intercourse, he noted.   The survey only confirms that stereotypes of categories of people who were hitherto considered to be high risk group no longer is true and that prevalence of AIDS is seen across categories of people be it KPO workers, bank employees and so on. "AIDS has broken class barriers and every section of population could find themselves vulnerable unless they are careful with their sexual indulgence and take precautions," he said.   The spread of AIDS is having a bearing on gross domestic product that is taking a hit of one per cent because of people infected by the disease, he said. The disease is difficult to detect and Supreme Court guidelines also makes it amply clear that no potential employer can screen a target employee for the disease as it invades of the personal liberties of the individuals concerned. This underscores the need for individual integrity, he noted.   G S Gopal, manager, Systems Strengthening, PSI Connect later told TOI that a 'Most at Risk' survey carried out by PSI that covered all sectors of work force found that certain sectors were now in high risk category. These included sugarcane workers in Bagalkot and Belgaum districts, garment workers in Bangalore, mines workers in Bellary, and construction workers and fishermen in coastal Karnataka, especially Mangalore. 