 BARNALA/MANSA: With AIDS spreading its tentacles in the state and claiming lives of both parents in several families, the fate of their infected children has become pitiable. This, especially, since the government has failed to reach out to such orphaned children or provide any medical help despite the fact that they too are infected.   Three small sisters and another brother-sister duo, not only have lost both their parents to AIDS, but the disease has been transmitted to them from their parents and has now, acquired full-blown form. The siblings' story is not an isolated one as there are hundreds such orphans in villages across Punjab. After losing father Raj Singh, Bhucho resident and a truck driver, in 2003, Lakwinder, then only 7-year-old, and his 4-year-old sister Jaspreet became orphans when they lost mother Karamjit Kaur, too, because of AIDS, two years later.   When other family members (Raj Singh's elder brother) got to know that the kids too have contracted the disease, they drove them away. Then the kid's aunt, Kanti Devi, (deceased Karamjit's sister) came to their aid and brought both to her place in Mansa. Since then, both Lakhwinder and Jaspreet are living a miserable life with three children of Kanti at a dingy residence in ward number 16.   She and her husband, Kuku Halwai, have no issues keeping the children. "We are making both ends meet on our meagre resources," said Kanti, adding that the state government had miserably failed in providing any assistance to the AIDS-affected children.   Kanti said in 2006, Holland-based NRI Gurmeet Singh Khaira had helped them and the family did not face much problem for about three years, but now again, they were facing financial hardship as both the children had to go to PGI for regular check up. Because of scarring on his face, Lakhwinder was thrown out of school but, Kanti, somehow, managed to get both enrolled in a small school in the neighbourhood.   Likewise, the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) rendered three sisters orphan on August 2, 2010, when their mother Rani Kaur died of AIDS. Six months back, their father Soma Singh, a truck driver, had died of the disease.   Thirty-five-year-old truck driver Soma Singh used to remain away from the house for longer durations. "During one of his trips, Soma fell ill seriously. It was then that we came to know that Soma was suffering from AIDS. After some days, he succumbed to the deadly virus," said Soma's brother Malkit Singh. After Soma's death, his wife Rani Kaur, too, was found suffering from AIDS apart from TB. Shuffling between anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centre, Rani too bade goodbye to life leaving behind schoolgoing daughters Jasbir Kaur (13), Amrit (12) and 7-year-old Karamjit.   Now, their single room hut in the Sansi mohalla (slum area) is their only adobe. "Life has snatched everything from us, but still we hope to complete studies and stand on our feet," said Jasbir, with pain peeping through her eyes. 