 Kamlesh was confused when she saw strangers around her but something connected her with them. Like her, many others had gathered in Lucknow in 2006 for Action AIDS Training programme in the hope of breaking free from isolation and social stigma. Turning the pages of her life, she recalls how she had lived every moment in the shadow of fear and death after she was detected with HIV in ------.   It was her husband's death due to HIV that spurred Kamlesh to get herself tested. When she was diagnosed with HIV, she was depressed but relieved that the virus had not been passed on to her daughter. Trapped in despair and desertion by society and her own family members, Kamlesh decided to triumph over her isolation, anger and frustration.   Four years later, Kamlesh's life changed in a way she could never have imagined before she attended the Lucknow workshop. Presently, leader of a self-help group for People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), Kamlesh says: "I want to create an enabling environment for those living with HIV/AIDS by educating them and their families. When one is diagnosed HIV positive, the journey (of life) becomes much tougher. It is not the virus that kills us but we ourselves destroy ourself with not willing to change the course of our life."   Kamlesh provides counselling to HIV positive people coming to her after being isolated by the society and their family members. Each day coming across two to four such patients and their kin, this woman fighter shares her own personal experience to console them and to prove to them that life has not ended. She makes them believe that they can lead a normal life like others.   Perhaps not one of the most visible faces of the women PLWHA's movement in the city, Kamlesh has become today's voice for those suffering from the deadly virus. She not only creates awareness and provides emotional strength, but also conducts awareness programmes in nearby rural areas along with other counsellors.   Striving to support the HIV positive women, Kamlesh says there are still thousands of HIV + people who are suffering physically and emotionally and women are the worst affected, thus HIV / AIDS needs to be de-stigmatised. "After getting a direction in life, I do not want to look back. Thus, I want other HIV+ people to realise the same purpose."   