 PATNA: With two new anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centres likely to become functional in the state by the year-end, HIV carriers can expect better availability of the therapy. The new ART centres are coming up at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute-Patna and Anugrah Narain Medical College and Hospital-Gaya.   The state already has four ART centres at Patna Medical College and Hospital, Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital-Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital-Laheriasarai and Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital-Bhagalpur.   ART centres provide facilities like counselling, pathological tests for assessing the CD4 count and free medicines, if required.   Bihar has at present 13,539 HIV+ persons registered with the existing ART centres. Of them, 6,478 have been put on ART therapy. This therapy is started once the CD4 count falls below 200.   "Dedicated manpower has already been deputed for the two new ART centres which will become functional once the civil work is completed by December-end," Bihar State Aids Control Society (BSACS) additional project director Sibi Alex told TOI.   He said some of the patients registered with the existing ART centres would be shifted to the new ones. This would not only rationalise the distribution of workload to the ART centres but also reduce the distance the HIV+ patients have to cover to reach these centres.   Plans are also afoot to start 19 link ART centres in addition to the existing five. "This would further make things easier for the HIV+ cases," Alex said.   The link ART centres free the HIV+ patients of the vicinity from the monthly chore of coming to the ART centres as they get counselling and medicines at the link ART centres. They, however, have to come to the ART centres for the CD count test every six months.   The five link ART centres which have recently been made functional are at Nawada, Begusarai, Saran, Hajipur and Mokama. The process of linking HIV+ cases of these areas with the link centres is on.   The new link ART centres are likely to become functional within the next three months in Bhojpur, Gopalganj, Arwal, Lakhisarai, Samastipur, East Champaran, West Champaran, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Munger, Kishanganj, Katihar, Purnia, Araria, Khagaria, Nalanda, Siwan, Jehanabad and Aurangabad districts. 