JAIPUR: It was a delightful Christmas for 13 HIV-positive children on Saturday. These children, between 7 and 11 years, were taken on a visit to several places in the city by the NGO 'RAYS-Ashi Ke Kiran'.For Ravi (name changed), it was an an unforgettable experience to spend the entire day playing with his close friends. "I enjoyed every moment of this day. I wish this day should come once in every month." All these children live in a home for children with AIDS in Shyamnagar. Some of them were abandoned by their parents who could not afford the treatment cost, while a few children's parents had died due to AIDS. All of them belong to different parts of the state. "This programme was planned to educate people about the disease that does not spread by sharing food or shaking hands with someone. These children need love and care from the civil society," said Apra Khuchhal, organisation's treasurer. Earlier during the day, they were invited by a ladies club. The children were gifted tiffin boxes, books, school bags, pens, blankets and chocolates. In keeping with the festive tradition, they sang carols and decorated the Christmas tree."The biggest challenge is to sensitise people against discrimination of HIV-positive children," said Khuchhal. Many schools celebrated the festival with the neglected and unprivileged sections of the society. Vice-principal of St Xavier's School CK Punnose along with a team of volunteers distributed gifts at an old age home in the city. "We organise this programme every year aiming to spread love and affection." The school had also invited poor children to spend the day on the campus. Another NGO Pravah Jaipur, which works for youth development and active citizenship celebrated the day with rags pickers. The NGO held a talk show on how to bring these sections of the society in to the mainstream. Meenakshi Bhanjbeo, director at Pravah Jaipur said, "Thousands of children in our state are engaged in menial jobs. We want to give them attention and nurture them properly."