 LUDHIANA: It seems that the health department's purpose of keeping track of TB patients, facing a HIV risk, has been solved. As the department has started the concept of offering voluntary HIV testing and compulsory counselling to patients, 11 new HIV cases have been identified in the second quarter.   Sources said in the second quarter, after a total of 800 TB patients, who never had undergone for HIV testing were checked, and 11 were found HIV positive. The integrated package had been started on April 1 where all the TB patients coming for the sputum tests were given the voluntary counselling on HIV and were motivated to go for the testing at the integrated counselling and testing centres. Till now, the district health department did not have the data regarding the number of TB patients suffering from HIV.   While giving the information, one of the officials of the health department said that under this program counselling would be given at the integrated centre, and, if the TB patient agrees to go for the test and turns positive for HIV, then he/she will be given antiretroviral drugs free. At present, more than 500 TB patients are coming only in civil hospital for the sputum tests.   On the condition of anonymity, one of the staff members of the ICTC Centre said that mostly people who were suffering from TB were at higher risk of getting the infection but due to the lack of awareness they did not come for the voluntary tests and patients themselves were not aware that they were suffering from HIV.   While giving the information, district TB officer Ashish Chawla said that this had been started with the aim to create awareness among the TB patients and to check the incidence among the TB patients as with this it was clear that almost 1% of the patients suffering from TB were suffering from HIV.   Dr Chawla added that along with the status of HIV patients, it would be helpful to provide them treatment after checking the patients and would be helpful in deciding the follow-up treatment.   