 NEW DELHI: HIV patients will soon have better facilities available for them in government hospitals around the capital. Delhi high court on Monday directed Delhi government to reserve at least one bed each in all its hospitals, which have dialysis facilities for HIV patients.   Delhi government had told the court that it was reserving one bed each in two of its hospitals for HIV patients. While accepting the NCT government's decision to reserve one bed each for HIV patients in Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospitals, the court, however, expressed the arrangement was inadequate and the government was required to reserve at least one bed each in its other hospitals in a time-bound manner.   ''Given the scale of the problem faced by the HIV positive patients in obtaining maintenance dialysis in government hospitals, this court is of the view that it is inadequate to reserve just one bed each in two hospitals of Government of NCT, Delhi. In a time-bound manner, at least one bed must be reserved in each of the other hospitals functioning under Government of NCT, Delhi, which are otherwise providing dialysis facilities,'' said Justice S Muralidhar in an order.   Seeking an affidavit within eight weeks from Delhi government's department of health and family welfare, the court asked the Delhi government to inform the court the time and schedule within which one bed each can be reserved in other government hospitals under them. The court's direction came after an affidavit filed by the Union health ministry through its counsel Jatan Singh said the Centre has taken a decision to provide dialysis facilities to each of the hospitals under Delhi government. The court was hearing a petition filed by a HIV-positive patient seeking a direction to AIIMS and other government hospitals which failed to provide him dialysis. Earlier, the court had directed the central government to draw a plan along with Delhi government to increase the number of hospitals offering dialysis to HIV-positive patients. 