 VARANASI: It is not easy for a seven-year-old child living with HIV/AIDS or even his/her parents to talk about the miseries of life before the civil society. But, on the eve of the World AIDS Day, many children living with HIV/AIDS and their parents assembled in the city on Sunday and shared their life experiences and problems, like the discrimination and humiliation they faced in the society. Though there is a programme and facilities to control HIV/AIDS, most of them felt themselves excluded from the society.   It was an initiative of the Uttar Pradesh Welfare for People Living with HIV/AIDS (UPNP+) with the support of UNICEF and Media Nest to give a voice to such persons and create awareness among people. Around 15 children from different districts including Varanasi, Chandauli, Jaunpur, Mirzapur and Bhadohi attended the programme.   "In Varanasi, there are 60 children of 5-14 age group who are infected with HIV," president of Banaras Network of Positive People Living with HIV/AIDS Society (BNP+) Manoj Kumar Singh informed TOI. According to him, the number of children living with HIV/AIDS (CLHA) in the eastern UP is over 500. The Varanasi district has over 1,000 persons infected with HIV, and the number of such people goes above 11,000 in eastern parts of UP. The UNICEF report estimates that 70,000 children below the age of 15 are living with HIV in India and 21,000 children are infected every year through parent-to-child transmission.   According to the 2009-10 annual report of the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), demographically the second largest country in the world, India has also the third largest number of people living with HIV/AIDS. As per the provisional HIV estimate of 2008-09, there are an estimated 22.7 lakh people living with HIV/AIDS in India. The HIV prevalence rate in the country is 0.29 per cent (2008-09) and most infections occur through heterosexual route of transmission. However, there are now 33.4 million people living with HIV, according to 2008 figures released by WHO. An estimated 2.7 million were newly infected with the virus and 2 million died of AIDS the same year. To take up the issue World AIDS Day is observed on December 1 to draw together people from around the world to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS.   In Varanasi, the anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centre at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) is playing a remarkable role. According to the records, so far over 11,000 HIV patients have been registered with the ART Centre, Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU. Around 4,500 patients are living on therapy and get regular medicines. The ART at BHU is one of the 10 centres of excellence in HIV care in the country, where the facility of second line drugs is available. It mentors the activity of 11 ART centres in Bihar, UP and Madhya Pradesh.   According Kulsum Talha of Media Nest, the children living with HIV should be heard and given due importance to fill them with a sense of respect. They should be encouraged to become a useful component of the society. The National AIDS Control Programme (NACP) III 2007-2012 has the overall goal of halting and reversing the epidemic in India. The NACP III places highest priority on prevention while seeking to integrate care, support and treatment for those affected by HIV/ AIDS.   