Meet:Students participaing in an AIDS awareness talk by Red Ribbon Club of Avinashilingam University for Women in Coimbatore.   | Photo Credit:  Going beyond academics, the KGiSL Institute of Technology touched upon an issue that was under focus across the world: global warming. Those at the institute and people in the neighbourhood teamed up to generate awareness on the dangers from global warming. It was pointed out at the programme that the maximum permission limit of carbon dioxide emission was 350 ppm (parts per million). But, the current level was 390 ppm. Bringing this down to at least 350 ppm was aimed at averting climate change that could cause an irreversible damage to environment. Global warming was leading to the melting of glaciers and a rise in the sea level. Floods were on the rise and so was drought. The institute said that a signature campaign conducted by it as part of the programme pointed out that the common people understood what global warming was and what its consequences were. Karpagam University has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Shri Meera Labs of Chennai on research, development and training. The university has said in a press release that the company was into producing speciality chemicals and research and development and commercialisation of enzymes for textile, paper, food and leather industries. The MoU was for promoting activities such as research collaboration, in-plant training and job-oriented courses in Life and Basic Sciences. Mentoris School of Management conducted a job fair on its premises for graduates and post-graduates. K.G. Information Systems Private Ltd., ICICI Prulife, India Infoline, Eureka Forbes and Pargo Healthcare were some of the firms that took part in the fair. The Department of Social Work at Karpagam University held a two-day workshop on “Research Methodology and SPSS”. It included lectures, group tasks, presentations and interactive sessions. About 70 participants, mostly research scholars, took part in it. V.L.B. Janakiammal College of Engineering and Technology conducted a contest titled “My Idea” to promote innovation among engineering students. Of the 22 ideas submitted, 10 were short-listed and presented before a jury of professors and professionals. Cash awards of Rs.3,000, Rs.2,000 and Rs.1,000 went to the winners of the first three spots respectively. “Perpetual Dynamo for Uninterrupted Power Generation” won the first prize, the second prize was won by “Embedded System that Translates the Sign Language of the Physically Challenged into Voice and Text” and the third prize went to “Implant Solar Cells in the Existing Windmill Setup to Harness Additional Energy.” Dr. N.G.P. Business School conducted a programme on “Empowering Knowledge” at the Temple of Consciousness at Aliyar at Pollachi in the district. Chief guest at the programme and Head of the Department of Human Excellence at Kumaraguru College of Technology V.S. Elamurugan called upon the students to develop the right attitude, skills and knowledge that were essential for corporate managers and entrepreneurs. As per UGC norms, Anti Women Harassment Cell has been formed at GRD College of Science. Geetha Padamanabhan, Secretary of GRD College of Science is the Chairperson, Dr.Geetha Ramani Shanmugam, Director, GRD School of Social Work, T. Santha, HOD of School of Computer Science and Information Technology, G. Radha, HoD of Department of Visual Communication, S. Sasikala, Senior Lecturer, School of Commerce and International Business and P. Saravanakumari, HoD of Department of Microbiology are the members. First meeting was held recently and more than 250 girl students participated. Students of the School of Management of VLB Janakiammal College of Engineering and Technology took out a procession in Arivoli Nagar recently and in Kovaipudur area stressing the need for use of plastic/polythene bags. Students have come out with constructive suggestions such as shop keepers keeping a stock of cloth and gunny bags to be supplied to customers against a returnable deposit. Procession was flagged off by Dr.R. Balakrishnan, Director of the Management School and R. Saravanan, HoD. Department of Computer Applications of the Hindusthan College of Engineering and Technology conducted its 4th National Level Technical Symposium HIFOCUS 09 recently. More than 150 participants from various colleges and institutions in and around Tamil Nadu took part in the various events such as paper presentation, code debugging, quiz, man expert, IT marketing, web designing. The overall shield went to Paavai College of Engineering. Jansons Institute of Technology, Karumathampatty, Coimbatore conducts its fifth series of Engineering and Technology Enrichment Programme for the benefit of the first year engineering students recently. Principal K.M. Mohanasundaram, B.S. Murthy, Professor of Department of Mettlurgy and Material Science Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai took part. Dr.Murthy spoke on Excitements in Nano Science and Nano Technology. Sankara Management Association (SMA) of Sankara Institute of Management Science, Coimbatore organised a one day seminar on "Turn Around Management: Issues, Strategies and Implementation" recently. Seminar was inaugurated by Chief Guest, K.V. Mohan Menon, Industrialist and Chairman of SDG Industries. The School of Management at Karunya University held a two-day Entrepreneurship Awareness Programme for students doing Masters in Business Administration. Presiding over the inauguration of the programme, Vice-Chancellor of the university Paul P. Appasamy asked students to take up entrepreneurship. He exhorted them to be job creators than job seekers. Registrar of the university Anne Mary Fernandez shared with the students her experiences as an entrepreneur. In his keynote address, Deputy General Manager of Vishal Precision P.H. Milton said an entrepreneur was a person who converted a new idea into reality by shouldering risks. He cited the success stories of J.R.D. Tata, Dhirbhai Ambani and young entrepreneur Sarath Babu. Deputy General Manager of State Bank of India T. Mohanram listed the various financing options for entrepreneurship. Consultant of National Entrepreneurship Network R. Raja inaugurated the Entrepreneurship Cell of the university. National Service Scheme Unit of the Avinashilingam University for Women conducted a special talk on Health Awareness and Dr. Mahadevan spoke to the students on general habits that the youth should develop for a healthy living. The session was followed by a question and answer. Special talk was followed by a skin and hair screening camp where 230 students underwent screening. Department of Social Work, Bharathiar University conducted a workshop on Cyber Crime recently. A. Sethurama Subbiah, Professor of the Department of Social Work presided over. Prof. P.G. Thamaraiselvi, Former Judge of the Family Court spoke on Cyber Crime and the difficulties faced in Cyber Space. S.N. Ravichandran of Cyber Society of India spoke on devices such as computer, Internet and Cell phones as tools in cyber crime. Department of Bioinformatics of G.R. Damodaran College of Science organised a Souls Meet 2009-Conference on Research, Entrepreneurship and Career in Life Science recently.Chief Guest of the session was Dr. Alexander M.A. Hankey, Professor of Yoga and Physical Sciences, SVYSA University, Bangalore. Over 75 students from 20 colleges took part in the event. The Karunya University and the National Stock Exchange have entered into an agreement to provide a six-month course on Capital Market, called the National Stock Exchange Certified Capital Market Professional (NCCMP) course. According to a university release, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed on Thursday by Anne Mary Fernandez, Registrar of the university, and Sunitha Anand, Manager, NSE,Chennai Regional Office, in the presence of Paul P.Appasamy, Vice Chancellor, and C.Samuel Joseph, Director, School of Management. The course would be offered by the university in Coimbatore and Chennai on weekdays and certain Saturdays and students passing out would be awarded a joint Karunya University-NSE Certification. The course aims at promoting education in financial and capital markets and would include subjects such as equity markets, derivatives, technical analysis, fundamental analysis, macro economics, current futures, etc.Practical training with a broker is an important component of this course. For details and admission, contact Programme Co-ordinator, NCCMP- Certification Programme, Karunya School of Management, Karunya University, Karunya Nagar, Coimbatore- 641 114. Email :clement@karunya.eduWebsite: www.karunya.edu