Prabhakkar Sharma VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam District Consumer Forum-I has directed a hospital management to pay Rs.25,000 for deficiency in service. A resident of Vinodnagar near NAD area, Pottinooru Somulu, was admitted at Kamala Nursing Home in Marripalem for treatment of fracture of right hip in August, 2007. He underwent surgery and was discharged. But his condition did not improve and he was again admitted in the nursing home and several tests including MRI brain scan was done. He was later shifted to a corporate hospital in September where during investigations, he tested positive for HIV, and was next shifted to the King George Hospital where he died in October that year. His daughter Kuppili Adilaxmi filed a complaint (788/2007) against the nursing home (OP 1) represented by owner K. Demudu Babu, Kamala Medical Centre (OP 2) also owned by the nursing home, operating surgeon Vijayabhushanam (OP 3), anaesthetist, general physician, nephrologist, and against the owner Dr. Demudu Babu, seeking compensation for medical negligence and deficiency in service. She said that the surgery was conducted though alternative treatment was available, without following the established procedure and examining him in a casual and routine manner. The diagnostic laboratory attached to the nursing home also belonged to the owner of the nursing home, and it was being run by incompetent and untrained people which resulted in a wrong report that the complainant’s father did not have HIV, she alleged. Basing on it, the surgeon proceeded with the surgery which led to complications and ultimately proved to be fatal, she contended. President of the Forum N. Jagannadha Rao, and members G. Viswanatha Reddy and D. Suseela, who examined evidence observed that it is quite evident that the subsequent complications which proved to be fatal was nothing but due to the fact that the complainant’s father had HIV. But, when this dreaded disease of deficiency in immunity was acquired by the complainant’s father could not be established by the complainant. “At any rate, it is quite clear that at the time of proceeding with surgery by the surgeon, they had no knowledge the patient was a HIV infected person. As a matter of fact, acquiring this disease with blood transfusion is more probable rather than the patient having it, even by that time of joining the nursing home,” they noted. Considering these circumstances, and in the light of the legal precedents and the nature of deficiency proved, the Forum partly allowed the complaint and directed the nursing home, its owner and the surgeon to pay a compensation of Rs.25,000 within 30 days, failing which it should be paid with nine per cent interest a year from the date of order to the date of payment. The Forum asked each party to bear their respective costs and fixed advocate fee at Rs.2,500.