PATIENT CARE: The 24-bed ICU, equipped with latest medical implements, is housed in the casualty block.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter Bangalore: Patients visiting the 141-year-old Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital can be finally assured of advanced facilities in the intensive care unit (ICU). A modern 24-bed ICU equipped with latest medical implements will be inaugurated on Thursday. The 686-bed hospital, which attends to nearly 1,000 outpatients every day apart from inpatients, did not have an ICU or a postoperative ward so far. Doctors were forced to shift patients immediately after surgery to the general ward, making them susceptible to infections. Those in need of ICU were moved to Victoria Hospital. Briefing presspersons on the high-tech facility on Wednesday, G.T. Subash, Dean and Director of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) to which the hospital is attached, said that the ICU, housed in the casualty block, was equipped with modern ventilators that were compatible to both children and adults, high-end monitors, syringe infusion and volume infusion pumps, defibrillator, a central monitoring station, fibro optic laryngoscope, portable ultrasound and x-ray units. With two fully equipped emergency operation theatres and a liquid oxygen plant, the Rs. 5-crore ICU would be supported by a 24-hour laboratory, a blood bank and a pharmacy. Twenty-four new special wards set up on the fifth and sixth floors were being inaugurated along with the ICU. Patient admission will begin after a week, he said. Dr. Subash said the process of fixing a uniform fee structure for ICUs in all the four hospitals attached to BMCRI was under way. “We are now charging between Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,200 a day, depending upon the use of consumables in Victoria (Hospital). We plan the same here. But those who really can’t pay will be given concession,” he said. “Our priority is to ensure adequate funds to manage the ICU and not burden the patient with a hefty fee. The hospital will have to spend at least Rs. 3,000 on the consumables required for each patient.” Stressing that first preference would be given to the hospital’s inpatients, he said: “Doctors in private hospitals have to consult our director in-charge of the ICU if any patient is to be referred to us. But these patients will be admitted only if we have vacant beds.” Hospital Medical Superintendent H. Satishchandra said that a HIV Centre of Excellence funded by Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS) and National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) would be set up on the hospital premises soon. A 10-bed burns ward would also be set soon, Dr. Satishchandra said.