P. Sujatha Varma VIJAYAWADA: In their new role of ‘agents of change’, the youngsters are determined to bring about a positive transformation in people’s mindset. “Initially, I was afraid to accept what I thought will be a daunting challenge. Today, when I look back, I feel happy to see that I have done my bit to prevent the AIDS monster from engulfing fresh victims in its dreaded stigma and discrimination fold,” says 18-year-old Ch. Ajay Kumar. Like many others of his age, Ajay Kumar is a Child Care Guide (CCG) working for a pilot project of the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), which is being locally implemented by Vasavya Mahila Mandali (VMM) as lead partner in the region. The project aims at reducing stigma against HIV-affected and infected children in educational institutions, families and community by kicking up a campaign on sensitising people about the actual modes of the virus transmission, create an enabling environment by forming children’s support groups and take up capacity-building programmes to improve the victims’ quality of life. The VMM has deliberately picked children from HIV-affected families to take up the role of ‘child care guides’, as they have a better understanding of the issues confronting them in the community. “We speak to school managements, identify the affected children and form support groups to sensitise people around them. The idea is to make the community empathise with the children subjected to discrimination for no fault of theirs,” says M. Swami, 17. Twenty one-year-old Santosh Kumari shares an experience of how members of a child support group at Giripuram persuaded a reluctant priest of a church to let out a small portion of the building for holding peer group activities. “That is the change we find in them. Besides educating them on key issues related to their welfare, we also motivate them to take part in community activities,” adds Swamy, explaining how the support groups organised rallies and collected rice for distribution among victims of flash floods in the city. “Convincing people that our activities are aimed at serving a good cause is difficult. But once they are convinced, it is easy to make them part of the endeavour,” says Narasimha Rao, a social worker associated with the project. The project includes conduct of participatory cultural shows in community, encouraging children to draw murals on stigma-related issues, knowledge-sharing with those not in the know of things, participatory community assessment, constitution of community core groups for planning, monitoring and evaluation of the project and formation of parents support groups in schools. The child care guides are working in Vijayawada, Tenali and Chirala bringing into the project fold thousands of HIV-infected and affected children in need of dire support.