Celebration:Students celebrating light fest at Mount Zion College of Nursing in Pudukottai.    The Mount Zion College of Nursing in Pudukottai recently celebrated lamp lighting ceremony of first batch of BSc Nursing students. Mallika, Nursing Superintendent, lit the Florence Nightingale lamp. Irene Light Christopher, Vice-Principal of Dr.Sakunthala College of Nursing, Tiruchi, who was the chief guest, presented the lamp to the students and explained the importance of nursing practice. Jayabarathan Chelliah, Chairman of Mount Zion Christian Educational Trust, presided. The Red Ribbon Club of Sudharsan Polytechnic College at Pudukottai recently conducted an interactive session on HIV and AIDS awareness. Ramaswamy, Parthasarathy and Varanadevi, delivered lectures about the preventive measures of the disease. S.Rajapandian, Principal, presided. The Roever Institute Management Association (RIMA) of Roever Institute of Management at Perambalur recently organised a special lecture on ‘how to be a good manager.' Xavier Amaladoss Arokiam, Director of Studies, Fulham and Chelsea College, UK, who was the chief guest, spoke on ‘Qualities required for a good manager in the corporate in the developed countries.' G. Chandrakumar, Director of Roever Institute of Management, presided. The RIMA also recently organised a one-day seminar on ‘personality development'. Dr.Rashmi from Australia, delivered a special lecture. The Naina Mohamed College at Rajendrapuram near Aranthangi, recently conducted a career guidance programme for the benefit of students to appear for the Civil Services examinations. Venkatesan, Assistant Director from NCERT, New Delhi, who delivered a special lecture, said that it would be easy for the students to come out successful in the examination with self-confidence and concentration. K. Rowther Naina Mohamed, Principal, presided. Mohamed Farook, correspondent of Naina Mohamed Educational Institution spoke. The Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan College of Arts and Science for Women at Perambalur recently celebrated the Pongal festival by organising cultural programmes. A. Srinivasan, founder chairman of the institution, presided. The Rotaract Club of Srinivasan College of Arts and Science, Perambalur, organised a seminar on ‘time management' recently. R. Karthikeyan, Placement Officer, Human Resource Development Centre of the college, was the resource person. A. Mutharasu, Principal of the college, R. Kanna, Director, MBA Studies, Sridevi, vice-president of the club, offered felicitations. A day long training programme for II and III year EEE, D.Tech Students was held at the Mother Theresa Polytechnic, Mettusallai, Iluppur in Pudukottai district recently. R. C. Uthayakumar, correspondent, inaugurated the programme. A. B. Gurumoorthy, JCI – Prime graduate and Placement Officer of MNSK College of Engineering, was the resource person. Seven final year under-graduate students were selected in a campus interview organised by the Hotel Management and Catering Science Department of Srinivasan College of Arts and Science, Perambalur. R. Raghunathan, HR Executive, GRT Regency, Madurai, conducted written test, group discussion. A. Srinivasan, Chairman, Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Educational Institution, distributed the offer letters for the posts of Front Office and other services. P. Neelraj, Secretary, A. Mutharasu, Principal; S. H. Afroze, Vice-Principal; and felicitated the students. S. Yoganand, Head of Department of Hotel Management and Catering Science said that students evinced interest in participating in the interview.