B.V.S. Bhaskar Rajahmundry: About 1,500 HIV positive children, below 15 years of age, would be covered under ‘Bala Sahayog’ programme launched about 18 months ago by the Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society to care and support children who are infected with HIV. Under this scheme the children would be given support through nutritional, health, education, psycho social treatment and comprehensive development. The scheme is extended to 55 mandals in the district. According to Dr. M. Pavan Kumar, AIDS control officer and additional DMHO of the East Godavari, they identified three NGOs to work in the ‘Bala Sahayog’ project in all 55 mandals and divided the mandals amongst the NGOs. St. Paul’s Trust was given 25 mandals, Pragati NGO was given 14 mandals and another NGO -- Rural India Self Development (RISD) -- was entrusted 16 mandals in the district. Konaseema area was given to RISD, Rajahmundry Revenue Division was given to Pragati and Anaparti to Rowthulapudi will be taken care by St. Paul’s Trust. Dr. M. Pavan Kumar said that there were 300 children under Anti-Retrieval Therapy (ART) in the district. Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society, with the support of Family Health International, was supplying readymade, nutritious food of 3 kg made with soya, wheat and other pulses prepared by AP Foods, Hyderabad. However, in first phase East Godavari AIDS control project is giving this food to 100 children and will extend the facility to another 200 children in the next few weeks. When asked about pre-ART and infected HIV +ve children number in the district, the AIDS Control Officer said that this number had slightly increased to 1,200 when compared to last year. However, he confirmed that Bala Sahayog project will be extended to the children below 14 years of age who are infected and also to the children of HIV positive parents. He said that no monetary benefit will be given to these families but the NGO’s who adopted the above mandals will have linkage for education, nutrition food supply, conduct of psycho-analysis training classes, individual counselling and other support.