Staff Reporter PUDUCHERRY: With reaching out to youngsters being one of the key agendas in the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS, the Pondicherry AIDS Control Society (PACS) and the Directorate of School Education launched the Adolescence Education Programme (AEP) and released a booklet on life skills education on Monday. AEP, one of the key policy initiatives of National AIDS Control Programme-II, was being implemented in various States by the Department of Education in collaboration with the State AIDS prevention and control societies, according to a release. The programme sought to address issues pertaining to adolescence, provide appropriate information on sexual and reproductive health, promote awareness on HIV/AIDS prevention and educate students on life skills. The objectives of AEP included co-curricular adolescence education in classes IX to XI, curricular adolescence education in classes IX to XI and life skills education in classes I to VIII. Inclusion of HIV prevention education in pre-service and in-service teacher training and for out-of-school adolescents and young people were among the objectives of the programme. Trained teachers and peer educators in turn conduct the programme among students, the release outlined. The booklet, which is being distributed to school principals and headmasters, deals with various aspects of adolescence, including understanding adolescence, objectives of AEP, sexual health, mental well-being, HIV/AIDS awareness, ill-effects of alcoholism, smoking and drugs, life skills and healthcare for adolescents. A sensitisation programme for principals and headmasters of government and private high and higher secondary schools was also held on the occasion. About 120 principals and headmasters participated. Project Director of PACS G. Subbarayalu Naidu said the booklet, which was part of the AEP, was meant for principals, headmasters and teachers of schools. They would. in turn, organise sessions for school students. “Separate books will be prepared for adolescent students. We will be distributing about 40,000 copies of the book for students,” he said. Home Minister E. Valsaraj, who also holds the Health portfolio, released the booklet. Member of Legislative Assembly R. Siva, Director of School Education S. Sundaravadivelu and Director of Health Dilip Kumar Baliga were present.