A week of variety: While Nagesh Kukunoor's ‘Aashayein' (left) tells about living in the moment, ‘Antardwand' (right) focuses on the plight of women and social evils prevalent in Bihar society.    After delivering a couple of duds, Nagesh Kukunoor returns to a familiar turf with a film that promises hope and sunshine in shadows but fails to deliver the desired  . One of the first directors of this generation who took the ‘filmy' label off our cinema with commercial success, Nagesh is adept at creating heart-warming characters. Here, he has crafted Anaitha Nair as the one. Anaitha showed the spark in   but here, as the terminally-ill cancer patient, she has got the opportunity to blossom and her effortless performance leaves us spell-bound. But she is the only bright spot in a film that goes all out to manipulate your tear ducts with a subject that has been tried many times before. John Abraham plays Rahul, a compulsive gambler, who gets a shock when he discovers that he is suffering from lung cancer and has only three months to live. His live-in girlfriend, Nafisa (Sonal Sehgal), offers to stand by him, but overrun by self-pity Rahul leaves for a hospice, leaving behind a substantial portion of his earnings for Nafisa. The rest of the film unfolds at the picturesque hospice by the sea where the cocky Rahul learns his lessons of life, the good old dogma of living in the moment as he comes across patients from all age groups staring at death. The problem of the film is spontaneity is amiss in the script. Instead of engaging us with a story, Nagesh has invested in moments, and after a point as these moments become rehearsed, you get his trick – the idea of manipulating the audience to reach out for the handkerchief. He succeeds a few times particularly in the scenes between John and the politically-incorrect Anaitha who is looking for company. They are a treat to watch but as a whole we realise that's not the amorphous Nagesh at play. Such films have a talkative kid who knows it all. Nagesh's Govinda (Ashwin Chitale) has a ring of the supernatural but it is a trick that is past its expiry date, so is organising the family reunion for an old man deserted by his folks. Farida Jalal, as an AIDS patient facing untouchability, seems to have jumped straight from the soppy scenes of Karan Johar's world and the smart idea of bringing the Indiana Jones angle gets tediously long to sustain attention. John gives his best, but it's not enough. As for the much talked about transformation, he remains a cool dude for a major portion of the film. The good news is Nagesh is back on track, but the sad part is he has yet to find his uplifting ways that once defined him. Taking the lid off the bizarre practice of groom-kidnapping prevalent in some districts of Bihar, director Sushil Rajpal paints a tangible picture of the ground reality where IAS aspirants are kidnapped and forced to marry. Dowry is the demon, but it's the bloated egos and complete disrespect for the female folk that irrigate this practice. The film has some unsettling moments of suppression and hate as the female is the most hapless victim of this practice. Silence is the word for her as she juggles between kitchen and bed in the best of finery. Once the father feels that his son will clear the exam, he expects the girls' fathers to queue up in front of his house and his son would be auctioned to the highest bidder. No amount of money is big for him. Most return but there are a few who are ready to break the queue. That there is support from the society and the system makes things easier for them. Raghuvendra (Raj Singh Chaudhary) faces one such egoistic father (Akhilendra Mishra). Awaiting the result of the civil services mains examination, Raghuvendra rushes home in Bihar when he discovers that his girlfriend is pregnant and about to tell his parents about it. As expected his father (Vinay Pathak) rejects the idea of him getting married to a Punjabi girl. Rajpal deals with stereotypes in a non-stereotypical fashion. On his way back he is kidnapped by Mishra's men and later married to his daughter Janaki (Swati Sen) against Raghuvendra's will. The girl's family tries different ways to make this marriage work but obviously it doesn't. Sounds Bollywoodish, but the film is based on a real story and the treatment doesn't give even an allusion of a pot-boiler. The practice may be extraordinary but the ingredients that lead to it are an everyday reality in mofussil India and Rajpal has handled them with conviction. Backed by a cast that understands the nuances of the language, the real-life setting and costumes add to the impact. The story is open-ended but it definitely shows the way forward. This turmoil needs to be addressed! In this week of little gems, this one salutes the spirit of Mumbai. Many films have dealt with a similar theme in the past and this one adds nothing new to the plot. What stands out is its honest approach in painting the picture of the common man in the Maximum City. Madholal (Subrat Dutta) is director Jai Tank's common man. A security guard in a private firm, Madho's day starts with queues but he doesn't mind for these lines constitute his social network, an occasion to meet his buddies. They may be loud, but good fun. While one is managing a date on the way to office, the other is lecturing on the state of affairs. Some witty lines keep the mood zippy! At home he has a loving wife but little space to make love, and a calm and collected daughter (Swara Bhaskar gives an apt performance) whose marriage is on his agenda. There is a Muslim mechanic next door (Pranay Narayan has a good screen presence) who wants to be more than good friends with his daughter, something Madho is unaware of. The bottom line is Madho is happy in his meagre existence. But, a blast happens and changes it all. Madho's world suddenly becomes numb. Losing his confidence with his limb, he starts fearing even a pressure-cooker whistle. Tank has got the scenery right but has forgotten about the flow of the script. It's as predictable as the sun rising in the east. The Muslim neighbour is arrested. His daughter takes up the responsibility of the family. There are usual comments on the insensitivity of the media. Haven't we seen it all? We don't mind an issue-based picture but give us an angle which has not been addressed before. It could well be a good reminder on a Sunday afternoon on television but this Madholal can't walk in an expensive multiplex. Presented as a sex comedy, it is a farce that fails to appeal at any level. Comedy of any variety works when the fun element, the punches are smartly woven into the script and the gags take off from the ground reality. Irrespective of the genre, adult certificate demands a level of maturity, not puerile stuff. Here everything floats on the clouds of absurdity and every twist and turn is lifted from the Bollywood book of clichés to titillate the audience with some cheap situations and double-meaning lines. If you have to show a boss with a loose character, place him in the fashion industry. The secretary has to be Anglo Indian, who says  . A boisterous simpleton has to be from Haryana and when nothing works make a dead body walk….  , it's time to move on to some new tricks. Javed Jafferi plays a boss who has no control over his hormones. Called Harddick Vasu, the name gives away the scriptwriters' level of imagination. With a Gujarati wife who adds bhai to his name, he keeps on exploring opportunities in the office. Three of his employees – Mansi (Gul Panag), Satvati (Eesha Koppikar) and Candice (Celina Jaitely) decide to take on Vasu but inadvertently fall into a trap where they have to give in to his lecherous ways to get out of the situation. The way they do it constitutes the rest of the story. Director Manoj Tiwari has presented exploitation at work place in a manner, which indicates that he wants his audience to ogle. Those who don't fall in line are punished by Vasu but Tiwari gives us no example of the kind who loves to follow the weirdo's commands. So there is no conflict just a convenient ploy to have some skin show and crude humour to keep the galleries whistling. Steer clear of perversion!