Laasya Narasimhachari. PHOTO: R. SHIVAJI RAO    L aasya Narasimhachari's dance recital for Kartik Fine Arts bore the mark of abundant talent that has been forged with rigorous training. Not surprising when she has distinguished teachers - the Narasimhacharis, highly regarded in the classical dance circuit as performers and teachers. A striking feature of the evening was the accent on rhythm either overtly as in the pure dance segments or as a live undercurrent in the emoting sections. The dancer tackled the challenges with a keenness that highlighted her affinity for pace. The confident nattuvangam and articulate vocals by Vasanthalakshmi and Narasimhachari with Gurubharadwaj's subtle mridangam play, and responsive notes on the violin and flute by Satishkumar and Bharadwaj, underscored the niceties of the dancing. The Ganesha stuti was the devotee's appeal for success in life and paved the way for the major part. The lively tala was especially noticeable in both ‘Maathe Malayathvaja', the daru varnam in Khamas by Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavathar and the Hindolam thillana by Narasimhachari. One could see that the mix of different nadais, little twists in the flourishes and other embellishments which peppered the adavus, gave neither room for sluggishness nor indeed much respite to the dancer. Yet one felt that Laasya's perfect execution of cadenced phrases would benefit from a steadiness in her araimandi. In addition camouflaging the obvious signs of strain and breathlessness would add sheen to her performance. Analogous to this the descriptions of the Devi, the sanchari narrating the birth and wedding of Meenakshi in the daru, were handled briskly. The Oothukkadu Venkatasubbier lyric ‘Nee Daan Mechi Kollavendum' in Sriranjani was a delight to watch. The dancer's handling of vatsalya bhava was smooth and one felt sympathy for Yasoda who bore the brunt of Krishna's many playful deeds. Laasya was in her element as the mother who chases after the naughty child only to find that he has given her the slip yet again. The nrityanjali in the end added to the feeling of well being and was a dedication to the father of dance, Bharatamuni.