Setting an example: K. Govind at his workshop in Rajahmundry. - PHOTO: S.RAMBABU    Kanchipati Govind works only with his hands -- his feet were paralysed right from his birth. Born in a poor family along with two brothers and two sisters, his father, a daily wager, asked the children to do some work to support the family income. But, Govind's case was different. He could not even sit properly till he was 10 years old. Relatives and friends of Govind's father had ‘suggested' that he send the child to an orphanage. Some of them even ‘advised' his father and even forced him to make Govind take to begging, saying that one could earn at least Rs. 75 a day begging in a busy centre. However, when he turned 15, Govind started washing cars and two-wheelers at a water servicing centre here. After gaining experience he started his own grease shop in Gorakshanapeta with the support of former Minister Gorantla Butchaiah Chowdary. It was at this juncture that the idea of serving the poor and physically-challenged struck him. One day he started ‘Mother Teresa Service Association' along with his friends -- Auto Srinu, Sai, Maruthi, Devi Prasad and others. Govind installed a ‘hundi' at his grease point. “In the beginning, autorickshaw drivers used to put Re. 1 to Rs. 5 in the hundi. I myself made it a point to drop Rs. 25 per day,” says Govind. The total collection in the first two years came to Rs. 8,000 and the group spent the same on inmates of a blind school and a leprosy home here. This became the practice on every January 1. As the prices increased, Govind increased his contribution Rs. 50 per day. Autorickshaw drivers have stopped contributing for various reasons. But Govind is unfazed. “Our service activities will continue and cover other areas too,” he added. His agenda is creating awareness for auto drivers on traffic rules, HIV/AIDS, gutkha, illicit liquor, helping pregnant women. Govind and his group are confident of managing things and do not want any support from the government.