SUMMER SPLASH It can be fun with suitable precautions PHOTO: RAJU. V.    l Pre-swim showering is a must to remove traces of sweat, urine, faecal matter, cosmetics and other potential water contaminants. l All users should be encouraged to use the toilet before showering to minimise urination in the pool and accidental release of faeces. l Caps should be used to prevent hair entrapment in outlets. l Post-swim shower to remove skin irritants is mandatory. l Monitor young children at all times. l Ensure that the swimming pool authorities maintain the highest standards of hygiene. l There are established guidelines for this and the results of the various evaluation tests must be displayed to establish end-user confidence. M rs. Kumar was in tears. Her son, an accomplished swimmer was competing in the national selections and he had been falling sick often over the last eight weeks. She consulted the paediatrician. The boy had low grade fever, cramping abdominal pain, diarrhoea, vomiting, loss of appetite, fatigue and weight loss, decelerating his coaching at a very crucial juncture. On further questioning, the doctor was made aware of the following facts. The boy had changed swimming pool over the last eight weeks as the previous one was getting renovated. The present pool had started a series of summer coaching classes, which included a number of young children in the pool and some of them had complained of similar symptoms. A specific stools test proved that Mrs. Kumar`s son had Giardiasis; the boy improved with treatment. Swimming has always been a popular activity in summer and there are a number of private and public swimming pools, besides water parks in Chennai. To keep their wards occupied, parents enrol them in the various swimming classes advertised. But it is necessary for them to be aware of the hazards involved in this sport. The two main hazards are accidental drowning and illness. When a child is enrolled in a swimming class, it is important that the guardian always supervises him as it is difficult for a coach to keep an eye on every student. The child can quickly stray into the deep end with unpleasant consequences. Diving at inappropriate depths, slipping on wet surfaces alongside the pool and dangerous ducking games in the water are other hazardous situations to watch out for. The illnesses resulting from swimming can be from accidental ingestion of water, contact with water (biological and chemical irritants) or inhalation of air above the water surface. It is often assumed that chlorination of water is sufficient to kill all organisms. But there are some organisms that are hardy and in overcrowded pools, the level of disinfection could be insufficient, leading to the persistence of organisms in the water. The majority of faecally derived infections are due to viruses (adenovirus, hepatitis A, norvovirus and enterovirus), bacteria (   spp,  .   0:157 ) and protozoa (Giardiasis and Cryptosporidium), resulting in vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal pain. The infection can be mild and settle down quickly or continue for weeks. Most of these infections are linked to accidental release of faecal matter in pools which is more common among very young children necessitating separate pools for them. Other common infections are related to the skin such as molluscipox virus (causing pearly white lesions on the skin) and fungal infections (trichophyton species, epidermophyton floccosum). Swimmer's granuloma refers to the lesions over abraded knees and elbows caused by Mycobacterium marinum. Some rare diseases related to the brain such as Naegleria fowleri and acanthamoeba have been described. The disinfectants can react with a number of other chemicals in the water to give rise to unwanted by-products of which chloroform is present in greatest concentration. The levels of free chlorine should not exceed 3mg/l and is considered acceptable in order to achieve adequate disinfection while minimising discomfort. Inhalation of volatile by-products can give rise to significant respiratory irritation, while exposure of the eyes to such products will result in irritation. MYTHILI SHIVARAM RAJAGOPALAN