The newly sworn-in members of the college association of Dr. NGP College of Education seen here with J. Kamalanathan, Station Director, All India Radio, and Thavamani D. Palaniswami, Secretary of the college.    The Directorate of Students' Welfare of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University organised a campus interview for the post of Rural Development Officer in the junior management scale 1 in Indian Bank. As many as 56 candidates got appointment orders. Students of Guruvayurappan Institute of Management along with faculty members celebrated Onam. A pookolam was made and students danced to the beats of the Chenda Melam. The arrival of Mahabali made the atmosphere lively. The entire gathering sat down to a traditional meal. The Department of Management of Karpagam College of Engineering conducted a corporate interaction programme on “Global Business Environment” at the college premises. Ramaswamy Sundarraj, management consultant, spoke on the application of information technology and the extent of its use in business to make corporate houses globally competent with an increased market share. The Department of Information Technology of SNS College of Technology organised a workshop on Cyber Crime Issues and Preventive Measures. C. Sylendra Babu, City Commissioner of Police, spoke on the topic. R. Ramamurthy, Chairman, Cyber Society of India, spoke to students on data theft and said extensive use of Indian websites would lead to reduction of such thefts. The ECE Association of Kalaignar Karunanidhi Institute of Technology was inaugurated recently. P.T. Mathew, Principal General Manager, BSNL, Coimbatore, was the chief guest. He spoke on the 3G technology in mobile communication. A CD was released as a souvenir to mark the occasion. The activities of the Department of Computer Science of Vidyasagar College of Arts and Science were launched recently. R. Krishnamurthy, Corporate Trainer, was the chief guest. He spoke on the need for and importance of developing communication skills, steps needed to set goals and having focus on them. The Gandhian Studies' Centre of the Avinashilingam Deemed University for Women conducted a workshop Gandhian Values for the Youth – A Rethinking. The workshop was to sensitise the youth to the values of Gandhi and to motivate them to apply them in their day-to-day life. Sheela Ramachandran, Vice-Chancellor of the university, inaugurated the workshop and appealed to the students to uphold the ideals of Gandhi in their everyday life. Experts from various walks of life were resource persons. The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering of KTVR Knowledge Park for Engineering and Technology organised the inauguration of its association Elixir. M. Subramanian, Assistant Executive Engineer, TNEB, said the main role of electrical engineers would be to involve themselves in research to minimise the losses in transmission and distribution. He also urged the students to make the public aware about saving energy. The academic year of PPG Institute of Technology was inaugurated by Vice-Chancellor of Anna University of Technology, Coimbatore, K. Karunakuran. He said the development of the Indian economy largely depended on the contribution of engineers. He encouraged those who were from Tamil medium saying that they need not have any inhibitions about their medium of instruction in their study of engineering. The inauguration of the college association of Dr. NGP College of Education was held recently. J. Kamalanathan, Station Director, All India Radio, was the chief guest. He installed the office bearers and administered the oath of office. He spoke on the importance of such activities and said that they helped inculcate in them leadership and tolerance. Thavamani D. Palaniswami, Secretary of the college, presided over the function. Hindusthan Teacher Training Institute organised the inauguration of the Red Ribbon Club inauguration. B. Mohamed Ali, Senior Civil Surgeon, District Programme Manager, was the chief guest. He explained about the causes and nature of HIV / AIDS and the social problems associated with AIDS. He also spoke to them about the precautions to be taken to prevent the disease. The Renewable Energy Club of the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering of Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College organised an awareness programme on renewable energy in association with Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency. K. Gururajan, Deputy General Manager, TEDA, Coimbatore, was the chief guest. S. Kamaraj, Professor, Department of Bio-Energy, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, spoke on “Mitigation of Global Warming through Waste to Energy and Renewable Energy Projects.” The Department of Fashion Technology of Kumaraguru College of Technology organised two embroidery workshops in basic embroidery and aari embroidery for second and third year students. The workshop covered 20 stitches and counted thread embroidery five stitches. A competition was also held wherein students had to complete a neckline design with stitches they had learnt the previous day. Prizes were distributed for those who had excelled in the designs. The inaugural function of the International Business Association of PSG College of Arts and Science was held recently. M. Settu, President, Coimbatore Productivity Council, inaugurated the activities of the council and spoke on “A Vision for MIBs”. He focussed on creation of wealth, good corporate governance, benefit to all stakeholders, sharing a portion of profit, corporate social responsibility, etc. He also inaugurated two projects – Global Coin and Currency Gallery, and Global Export Import Charts. The GRD School of Social Work of Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science organised a seminar on “Care Givers of Patients – Their Issues and Challenges”. Anshul Mishra, Corporation Commissioner, was the chief guest. He spoke on the de-addiction centre established for scavengers. The need for psychological and holistic care to be rendered by social workers to society was stressed. The Women's Studies Centre of Sri G.V.G. Visalakshi College for Women, Udumalpet, organised a workshop on “Stepping into Future with Confidence”. Srimathi, a lawyer, one of the resource persons, spoke on “Marriage Registration and Legal Rights of Women”, and Geetha Selvaraj, another advocate, spoke on “Violence against Women and Social Evils.” Mylswamy Annadurai, Project Director of Chandrayaan I and II gave a lecture on “Chandrayaan Experiences” at the Akshaya College of Engineering and Technology. He explained to them the salient features and also the discernible difficulties that were involved in the launch of Chandrayaan I. He insisted that mother tongue as a medium of instruction was not a constraint in science and technical learning. The Department of Biotechnology of SNMV College of Arts and Science organised a lecture on “Global Warming, Climate Change, and Politics Behind It”. Ashutosh Samanth Singhar, Chief Conservator of Forest Department, Clean Development Mechanism, Chennai, was the chief guest. He spoke to the students on weather, climatic changes, rainfall pattern and factors related to global warming. He also stressed on the importance of paper conservation. The Department of Visual Communication of Rathinam College of Arts and Science organised a special photography exhibition in the college premises. Nearly 300 photos on topics like human values, nature, news, environment, children, and developments in Coimbatore were displayed. Madan A. Sendhil, Chairman of the Rathinam Group, inaugurated the expo. Students from schools and colleges visited the exhibition.