Important information: Inside the train   | Photo Credit:  P. SUJATHA VARMA Visit this train that will arrive on platform No. 10 of the Vijayawada railway station on April 22. The Red Ribbon Express, the AIDS awareness train that journeyed by the length and breadth of the country to inform people about the disease and providing on-board counselling, will arrive on platform No. 10 of Vijayawada railway station on April 22. This is the second phase of the awareness journey and it will halt at the local rail station for two days. No myths Besides dissemination of information on HIV/AIDS, the other objective of the extensive campaign kicked off by the Government in coordination with the National AIDS Control Society, is to unite people by dispelling existing misconceptions on the dreaded virus. During the halt, volunteers will help the masses understand about the infection in order to reduce stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS. The 10-coach train with doctors and volunteers on board will also help increase people's knowledge about general health as well. “Treatment will be provided for sexually transmitted diseases (STIs) inside the train which will be linked with mobile health clinics that will cover urban and rural pockets during the two-day stoppage,” says Additional District Medical and Health Officer for Krishna district (AIDS and Leprosy) T.V.S.N. Sastry. “We want to involve youth, self-help groups and college students in the campaign for effective results. Members of Red Ribbon Clubs can contribute their mite to spreading knowledge about the much-dreaded virus,” he says. Of the 10 coaches in the train, the first three are exclusively about HIV, its causes and remedies. The fourth coach will form part of the Government campaign on National Rural Health Mission, stressing on health factors like personal hygiene, prevention of swine flue and other communicable diseases. The fifth coach will have an auditorium and a training centre where six batches will be trained in two days. Each batch will have 50 persons drawn from the Medical and Health department, the Women and Child Development wing, the Panchayat Raj department and District Rural Development Agency. This is in addition to an exclusive session for members of the youth Red Cross society. The sixth coach will have two doctors and a team of counsellors. A crowd of 10,000 to 15,000 visitors is expected during the two days. From Vijayawada, the train will head to Bheemavaram, Kakinada and Bobbili.