Awareness on the move:Ko.Si. Mani, Cooperation Minister and S.N.M. Ubayathullah, Commercial Taxes Minister, at the exhibition inside the Red Ribbon Express in Thanjavur railway station   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent THANJAVUR: “Unite India Against AIDS,” says a statement on the coaches of Red Ribbon Express that arrived at Thanjavur Junction on Monday to create awareness of AIDS. The fully air conditioned Red Ribbon Express with its exhibition on bio-medical aspects, educational materials, information on general health, hygiene, auditorium cum conference coach to educate local body representatives, anganwadi workers and counsellors has created tremendous awareness of AIDS among people throughout the country. In the phase one of its journey, the express covered 27,000 km across 24 states, halted in 180 stations recording 62 lakh visitors. In phase one, 1,22,587 people visited the train in Tamil Nadu alone. Over 3,728 men and 1,296 women received counselling and 570 people got treatment for sexually transmitted infections. Now, the train is in its second phase journey has so far covered New Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and entered Tamil Nadu at Nagercoil on March 14. After halting at Nagercoil, Virudhunagar, Madurai and Rameswaram, it has reached Thanjavur. It will be here for two days, that is, Monday and Tuesday at Thanjavur, and continue its journey to Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Kancheepuram and Chennai. Ko.Si. Mani, State Co-operation Minister, inaugurated the exhibition in the train. S.N.M. Ubayathullah, State Commercial Taxes Minister, participated. While the eight coach train will provide on-station activities through exhibitions and displays, various off-site communication activities will be undertaken alongside to ensure maximum outreach and impact. Twelve vans will be travelling with cultural performers and reach out to 96 villages to create awareness of “Nambikkai Maiyyam” to rural population through the “Dillu Dura” campaign. Selvi Sivagnanam, Chairperson of Thanjavur district panchayat council flagged off the vans from the station. The Red Ribbon Express, which contains messages about AIDS, a counselling centre, treatment centre can be visited from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Tuesday. The exhibition can be viewed free of cost and there is no need to buy platform ticket to see the train.