Staff Reporter KRISHNAGIRI: The number of HIV-affected persons has come down considerably in Krishnagiri district during last year, K. Chandramouli, Director, National Aids Control Organisation, said here on Friday. Mr. Chandramouli inspected the operations of Anti-Retroviral Testing (ART) centre at the district headquarters hospital, STD clinic, blood banks and counselling centre in Krishnagiri along with Shambu Kallolikar, Project Director, Tamil Nadu Aids Control Society. Inspecting the blood bank, Mr. Mouli enquired with the officials whether they had enough stock of blood to meet emergency requirement and also about the refrigeration system at the bank. He enquired about the number of patients visiting the ART centre daily and how the HIV-affected persons were counselled at the 17 centres called ‘Nambikkai Maiyam' across the district. He was informed that on an average 50 to 70 HIV affected persons were visiting the ART centres and as many as 120 to 140 new HIV-affected persons were registered at the centre. They were being counselled or given treatment on a continuous basis. Apart from this, those identified through the 17 counselling centres were also given continuous treatment. He also enquired about the number of patients visiting the STD clinics and how they were motivated to undergo treatment at the clinic. He also visited the community care centre run by the District Aids Control Society and asked the inmates about the treatment given at the centre and how they felt after the treatment. Mr. Mouli instructed the officials to identify HIV-affected persons through blood donation camps and give continuous guidance and counselling. Those suffering from STD should be sent for HIV test. Those afflicted with HIV should be given continuous counselling through field workers. Awareness camps should be conducted on a regular basis in the district. Later, he along with Mr. Kallolikar distributed education assistance of Rs. 3000 each to 100 children. During the inspection, V.K. Shanmugam, Collector, M. Masilamani, Joint Director (Health), T. Kavin, Project Manager (Aids Control), P. Shanmugam, Secretary, Red Cross Association and G. Karunanidhi, founder, HIV-Positive Network, accompanied him.