Prevention: Workers spraying insecticide as part of the Mysore City Corporation's mosquito eradication programme to check vector-borne diseases in the city. — PHOTO: M.A. SRIRAM    With cases of vector-borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya on the rise in Mysore, the district health authorities here are sending samples of suspected cases to the Public Health Institute (PHI) in Bangalore for tests, as the district laboratory, which functions under the Department of Health and Family Welfare, is reportedly “not equipped” . Despite being the fastest growing tier II city in the State, Mysore's district laboratory “does not have an ELISA reader, which is required to detect the dengue and chikungunya virus.” Although the Krishnarajendra Hospital here attached to the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) has the device, it is used only for HIV tests. However, sources in the Health Department told   that an ELISA reader had been sanctioned. On the request of the department, the MMCRI reportedly agreed to allow microbiologists of the department to conduct tests for dengue and chikungunya at its facility, for now. Besides, a few private hospitals here are equipped to detect the diseases. The department has received kits from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, which are essential for conducting tests using the ELISA reader. The sources said NIV had sent two kits. More than 25 cases can be tested in each kit. Meanwhile, 57 samples of suspected cases of dengue and chikungunya collected from the city had been sent to the PHI lab for tests. Of these, nine tested positive for chikungunya and two for dengue. In 15 cases, the samples tested positive for malaria, the sources said. No death due to malaria has been reported. A source from the Health Department said: “Surveillance is under way and 360 nursing students and staff are involved in spreading awareness about the diseases. A total of 36,218 households have been covered so far.” Dengue and chikungunya cases have been reported in areas such as Kuvempunagar, Saraswathipuram, Srirampura, Ramakrishnanagar, T.K. Layout, Gangotri Layout, Aravindanagar, Vivekanandanagar, Bogadi Second Stage, Janata Nagar, Bannimantap, N.R. Mohalla and Jalapuri here. Although the Mysore City Corporation (MCC) has intensified mosquito eradication programmes like fogging and controlling the breeding of mosquitoes, the diseases have not been effectively checked. The Health Department and the MCC maintain that all possible steps are being taken to check the spread of the diseases. Besides the awareness programmes, mobile medical units have been kept ready and rapid response teams set up in each taluk to meet any emergency. Dengue death The death of a woman from Pudukote village in H.D. Kote taluk from suspected dengue has kept health authorities here on their toes. Sources said blood samples of the deceased have been sent to Bangalore. A medical teamvisited the village. Residents are being screened to prevent the spread of the disease.