Honour: Students of Government Law College who won the overall championship in the inter-collegiate athletic meet. (Right) Visitors at the mathematics exhibition organised by Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women.    A State-level seminar on ‘Global environmental issues and their impact on health in India,' organised by the Department of Economics of Madura College, was inaugurated by M. Ravichandran, Head, Department of Environmental Management, Bharathidasan University. In his address, Dr. Ravichandran explained the ill-effects of global warming, climate change, acid rain, ozone depletion, deforestation and green house effect. S. Theenathayalan welcomed the gathering. M.S. Meenakshisundaram, secretary, Madura College Board, presided over the inaugural function. R. Gopi, coordinator, proposed a vote of thanks. R. Anandaraj of The American College; G. Yamuna of G.V.G. College for Women, Udumalpet; K. Sundaram of ANJA College, Sivakasi, and R. Pugalendran of MAVMM Ayira Vaisyar College were the resource persons. One hundred and twenty papers were presented by participants from 16 colleges in different parts of Tamil Nadu. All the papers focussed on dimensions of the environment, ecology and other environmental related issues. M. Soundrapandian, Head, Department of Rural Industries Management, Gandhigram Rural University, delivered the valedictory address and distributed certificates and prizes to the participants. *** An inter-collegiate State-level students' seminar on ‘e-education' was conducted by the Department of Computer Science of Thiagarajar College. A.M. Vasumathi, Head, Department of IT, KLN College of Information Technology, in her address, said that e-learning increased communication between the learner and teacher. E-learning, she said, was user-friendly. Seventy two students and teachers from various colleges participated in the seminar. Among them, 38 students presented technical paper on e-education and 28 participated in the technical quiz. The Principal (in charge), S. Subramanian, presided over the inaugural session. S. M. Valli, Head, Department of Computer Science, addressed the participants. Vidhya proposed a vote of thanks. A seminar on ‘Environment management: strategies and polices' was organised by the Research Department of Economics of the college. Students of 20 colleges from all over Tamil Nadu participated in this seminar, which was inaugurated by S. Ramasamy, Head, Department of Economics, Gandhigram Rural University. A. Muthaiyan, Head, Department of Economics, welcomed the gathering. Dr. Ramasamy highlighted the environmental problems across the globe and stressed the need for better environmental management through benevolence of intelligence and greater participation of the civil society. He explained the strategies of mastering the art and science of environment management in the emerging era of global warming and climate change. Prof. Ramasamy said the challenge was to change the pattern of economic development based on fossil fuels to one supported by clean and renewable sources of energy. He expressed the view that any investment in climate engineering might be able to reduce effects of global warming. Prizes and certificates were distributed to the participations by the Principal (in charge), Dr. Subramanian. S. Kanagasabai, coordinator, proposed a vote of thanks. The Department of Chemistry conducted a three-day workshop on ‘Biodiesel, biocatalysis and spectroscopic characterisation of compounds.' B. Viswanathan, Head, National Centre for Catalysis Research, Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, was the resource person. A. Thamaraichelvan, Head, Department of Chemistry, welcomed the gathering. P. Prakash proposed a vote of thanks. A State-level inter-collegiate seminar was organised by the department on ‘Alternatives to plastics' for undergraduate students and ‘Applications of ultrasonic in Chemistry' for postgraduate students. Sixty one participants from various parts of the State presented papers in the programme. K. Rammohan of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, in his key note address, spoke about the adverse effects of using plastic. *** Students of Government Law College won the overall championship for men in the Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University inter-law collegiate athletic meet held in Chennai recently. The individual athletic championship was won by R. Jeyakarthik of fourth year BL. The Principal, S. Radhakrishnan Nair, and Director of Physical Education, S. Muthu, congratulated the winners. *** As part of extension activity, the Mathematics Department of Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women conducted a mathematics awareness programme, which included a mathematics exhibition and a mathematical talent contest. The aim of the exhibition was to highlight the various interesting aspects of mathematics. One section of the exhibition showed how painter Escher had exploited the mathematical concept of tessellation to produce striking and wonderful paintings. Konigsberg bridge problem, magic squares, logical puzzles etc. were appreciated by girl students of several corporation schools. Students of class XI and XII participated in the mathematical talent contest and won prizes. *** The Fatima College team won the Madurai Kamaraj University inter-collegiate handball tournament for women conducted at the university ground. The team beat Lady Doak College in the final to clinch the winners' trophy. *** The National Service Scheme units of E. M. Gopalakrishna Kone Yadava Women's College, in association with the Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, celebrated NSS Day at Panchayat Elementary School, Sanipatti. The volunteers created awareness of nutrition and healthy food through dance, play and songs among the children. The Department of Zoology organised a two-day national conference on “Recent trends in Biotechnology' . In his inaugural address, K. Muthuchelian, Vice-Chancellor, Periyar University, spoke about the recent developments in the field of drug designing, plant based vaccines, cancer and HIV vaccines, gene therapies, biofuels, conservation technologies and signal transductions and their benefits to humanity. The traditional lamp was lit by the secretary of the college, E. M. G. S. Indirani. L. Jothi Bai, Head, Department of Zoology, welcomed the delegates. The Principal, R. Poovazhaki, delivered the presidential address. K. Veluthambi, Head, Department of Plant Biotechnology, Madurai Kamaraj University; S. Karuthapandian, Head, Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, and K. Gurumurthy, former senior advisor, Department of Biotechnology, were the resource persons. S.S. Kalayni proposed a vote of thanks. P. Gautham, Head, Centre for Biotechnology, Anna University, delivered a lecture on the second day of the conference. The valedictory address was delivered by M. Krishnan, Head, Department of Environmental Biotechnology, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi. One hundred and ten participants from 11 colleges attended the conference and 35 of them presented papers. G. Indira Rani proposed a vote of thanks in the valedictory session. *** A State-level seminar on ‘global warming' was inaugurated at N. M. S. Sermathai Vasan College for Women by the District Collector, C. Kamaraj. Students and teachers from 21 colleges from all over the State participated in the event. Mr. Kamaraj said that the youth had a great role in reducing global warming and save the earth. The emission of green house gases resulted in the melting of polar ice caps, strong wind and less vegetation. He also spoke about remedial measures to ward off the menace of carbon emission. G. Karikolraj, secretary, welcomed the gathering. N. Sivasubramanian, president of the college, presided. Three technical sessions were conducted on three aspects of global warming. Mr. Sivasubramanian spoke about the cause and effect of global warming. Samuel Paulraj, Head, Department of Natural Resources and Water Recycling, Madurai Kamaraj University, delivered a lecture on global warming and environmental stress. Jones Rabindran, formerly of ISRO, spoke on ‘pollution: preventive measures.' The valedictory address was delivered by Subramanian, Chief Health Officer, Madurai Corporation. *** The English Association of Madurai Sivakasi Nadars Pioneer Meenakshi Women's College was inaugurated by K. C. A. D. Chidambaram, chairman. A. Ponni, Head, Department of English, welcomed the gathering. R. Suriyabrabah, Principal, addressed the students. R. Ilango, former Vice-Principal, Vivekananda College, spoke about the importance of communication skills. P. X. Paul Vency Mary proposed a vote of thanks. *** The graduation ceremony of Sacred Heart Nursing College was conducted at Ultra Mission Hospital and Research Centre. Shirley David, Deputy Dean, College of Nursing, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Vellore, delivered the Graduation Day address. K.R. Arumugam, chairman, Ultra Trust, welcomed the gathering. Ramajayam, Professor of Psychiatry, Madurai Medical College, spoke about the healthcare scenario in the country. Chandrakala, Vice-Principal, proposed a vote of thanks. *** Compiled by S.Annamalai