P robably one of the dreaded diseases at this point of time is Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome, because of the lack of awareness and information. It is a disease which is spread by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and affect the body and mind due to the virulence of diseases it can set in. HIV was a retrovirus for almost half a century and is prevalent with its manifestation of the diseases for about 25 years. The human immunity is all pervading within the precincts of the human body and rises to the occasion to stave away the harmful pathogens like bacteria and viruses and even it is bogged down by the illness has a mechanism to fight the disease into submission more often than not. But when a human body is affected by the virus it causes AIDS or a condition in which the immunity is taken hostage and is unable to represent in the time of need. This reduced or compromised immunity is a sitting duck for every little harmful bacteria or virus that comes in the way and forms enough reason to cause disease at the slightest pretext. This condition is the fear of the disease. But just the infection with HIV is not itself a disease. Initially, when the virus enters into the body there could be fever, chills, swelling of the lymph nodes to start with. There is a window period in which the virus after enters into the body and the time at which it starts bringing down the immunity of the individual. It varies in different infected people and can be usually up to a period of about 15 years when the immunity starts to get compromised. This window period has given more hope for research. It is important to know that the virus spreads from an infected person to another only through unprotected sexual intercourse, usage of infected needles and instruments and if blood of an infected person is transfused to a normal person. It is likely to spread from the mother to the child if she has been infected during pregnancy, through breastfeeding the infant etc. The virus does not spread by touching, shaking somebody's hands, hugging an infected person, using the same utensils for eating or drinking, playing sports with them, being exposed to coughing or sneezing of the affected person and not to the least by using the same washrooms. It is a challenge to keep the virus at bay within the human body and also to keep it from replicating when the immunity has been weakened too. Homoeopathy has remedies that have been applied in these areas. In the phase when the virus is in the body there have been remedies that have been used purposefully like   etc. but if the virus has started having its say on the immunity then remedies like   have been found to be useful in the long run. All the above remedies are of use when the period from the time of infection and also during the phase of immune system under sway is helped and the progression time of the virus is delayed as much as possible. DR. VENUGOPAL GAURI