The district panchayat will implement projects worth Rs. 28.95 crore during this fiscal utilising the plan fund. Projects to the tune of Rs. 22.22 crore had received the approval of the District Planning Committee while the rest were projects carried forward from the previous financial year. One of the main projects was to launch paddy farming on fallow land at an estimated cost of Rs. 30 lakh, which will be equally shared between the panchayat and the beneficiaries concerned. A women's ward has been proposed at the renovated District Ayurveda Hospital at a cost of Rs. 1.33 crore. Another Rs. 3 crore has been allocated for the construction of the second and third blocks of the hospital. A training-cum-conference centre for the members of Kudumbasree at Choornikkara entailing an investment of Rs. 1.50 crore has been proposed. A brick unit at a cost of Rs. 33.20 lakh and setting up stalls at an estimated cost of Rs. 3.15 lakh for the monthly markets are the other proposals in favour of Kudumbasree. A sum of Rs. 40 lakh has been set apart for buying study materials and related accessories for the 15-odd schools for physically and mentally challenged students within the district. Another Rs. 54 lakh will be spent on scholarships for such students across the district. Mid-day meal scheme will be instituted for class IX and X students in the coastal schools at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh. The scheme, whereby students belonging to the Scheduled Castes are adopted and given hostel facilities and education from Class V to X, has been allocated Rs. 24.85 lakh. A modern cemetery will be set up at Piravom at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh. Girls-friendly toilets will be set up at schools for Rs. 25 lakh while Anganwadis will receive baby-friendly toilets for which Rs. 30 lakh has been granted. The proposal for setting up a district planning secretariat has been allocated Rs. 9 lakh. The HIV-infected will be given nutritious food for which Rs. 4.12 lakh has been set apart. The project to convert the pig farm at Angamaly into a rabbit farm receives Rs. 5.15 lakh.