The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) recently organised convocation to present degrees to the students of Sanskrit and Music schools. But, the reporters covering the convocation — held after eight years — were in a for surprise when Adidevanand Swami of Kailasashram Mahasamsthan Math, Tumkur, delivered the convocation address in Sanskrit. Mercifully, the reporters were given a Kannada translation of the address. But, they found themselves at a disadvantage when Adidevanand Swami, after reading out his address, gave a five-minute extempore speech in the same language. Minister for Medical Education Ramachandra Gowda used the inaugural function of Republic Day Flower Show recently as a platform to make a virtually tall secular claim. By citing the creation of a 30-foot-tall floral Qutub Minar, a monument built by the Sultans of Delhi, at the Flower Show as an example of BJP’s secular credentials, Mr. Ramachandra Gowda sought to dispel the communal tag attached to the saffron party. “People accuse us of being communal. But, we have proved otherwise by our deeds. The creation of the Qutub Minar in flowers is an example of our secular credentials,” he said. As many as 30 officials, 18 from the Police Department and 12 from the Fire and Emergency Services Department, were awarded the President’s medal on the occasion of the Republic Day for their distinguished and meritorious services. These awards have brought happiness to the family members and relatives of the awardees. “Admirers” of one of the award-winning official, issued a full-page advertisement in a regional language evening newspaper on Tuesday and congratulated the official for the award. But, this gesture had landed the “admirers” of some of the other award-winning officials in a quandary. For, they are also under pressure to follow suit. According to a realtor, who is said to be close to an official who had won the President’s medal for his distinguished services, some of the award-winning officials are sounding out their admirers to congratulate them by publishing advertisements in newspapers. CHITRA V. RAMANI, SHARAT S. SRIVATSAVA and M.T. SHIVA KUMAR