ON OPINION A panel discussion followed the screening of Mira Nair's "How Can It Be” at the short film festival    A t a time when cinema is largely being used in the country as a means of mere entertainment, here is a forum Filmbooth, which in association with the United Nations is trying to draw strength from the mass appeal of the medium for a noble cause. They recently organised a one-of-a-kind short film festival in New Delhi. The two-day festival was titled ‘Eight' keeping in mind the UN's eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) such as end hunger, universal primary education, gender equity, child health, maternal health, combat HIV/AIDS and other diseases and environmental sustainability, global partnerships. Since they need immediate Government attention and action, the organisers' endeavour was to bring them to light through the film festival. The event at the city's India Islamic Centre began with the launch of the report, “Millennium Development Goals in India, 2010 — A Civil Society Report” in the presence of the Wada Na Todo Abhiyan Campaign (WNTA) convenor Amitabh Beher. The festival was inaugurated by Bollywood actor and ambassador for Save the Children's EVERY ONE campaign, Kunal Kapoor, who himself had been associated with issue-based cinema. The festival has been put together after a month-long international short filmmaking competition on themes related to MDGs. Jury members Anurag Kahsyap, Mike Pandey, Bhawana Somaaya, Vaagish Jha, Namrata Joshi and Kuhu Tanveer shortlisted 33 out of 120 entries from over 15 countries. The festival opened with the short film  , directed by Mira Nair. Featuring Konkona Sen Sharma and Ranvir Shorey, the film highlighted the issue of gender inequality and formed the base for a panel discussion moderated by Aruna Vasudev, founder-president, Network for the Promotion of Asian Cinema, with Dilip Cherian, Nafisa Ali, R.K. Pachauri and select UN dignitaries as members. The storyline, however, did not go down well with most of the panellists with Nafisa Ali being visibly offended. She said, “Being a Muslim woman, I would never buy this kind of a subject; it might send out wrong impressions about Muslim women, and I never expected such a ridiculous film from Mira.” The film showed a Muslim woman (Konkona) leaving her husband (Shorey) and child for another man. The panellists mulled over various issues concerning the MDG goals with Cherian suggesting sensitising tomorrow's generation towards development issues. He also suggested capitalising on the fascination for New Media. G.A.