Fun & frolic: Employees of Deloitte playing with children at Vivekananda Public School in Banjara Hills on Friday as part of ‘Impact Day'. — Photo: G. Krishnaswamy    Despite the summer vacation, Vivekananda Public School in Banjara Hills was abuzz with activity on Friday. The compound of the tiny school turned noisy and laughter filled the classrooms as about 150 children in brown uniforms joined Deloitte associates in celebrating Impact Day 2010. Awareness sessions on importance of English, introduction to computers, road safety and environment, a one-hour stress management programme for students of classes 9 and 10 and a talent search examination to “give them a taste of how competitive exams look like”, formed the day's itinerary. By blending them with fun activities and games, the volunteers ensured the children had a good time. “These are some things outside their academics. We have also involved them in e-learning,” said an associate-volunteer participating in the programme. The school, the company claimed, was among the 280 locations across the city that is part of Deloitte's corporate social responsibility activities throughout the year. “There are threads that meet every week and some that participate four or five times in a year. Throughout the year we do a lot of activities. This is a celebration of all that we do in a year,” said Hari Kumar, partner, Deloitte LLP. A total of 10,000 professionals across six metros devoted a full working day to volunteer their time and skills to make a meaningful difference to more than 1,80,000 lives, a statement said. From heritage conservation to spreading awareness on environment and AIDS to teaching jail inmates vocational skills and providing business expertise on strategies for NGOs, the company associates indulge in different skill-based volunteer activities. The philosophy being, as Mr. Kumar put it, “It might sound cliché but there is a popular Chinese proverb, give a man a fish and you will feed him for a day; teach him how to fish, and you will feed him for a lifetime.”