Way to go: Cadets of Scouts and Guides of DAV Schools taking out a rally as part of awareness campagin on water conservation in Berhampur on Friday. — Photo: Lingaraj Panda    Cadets of Bharat Scouts and Guides took out a rally in the city on Friday as part of a campaign for safe drinking water. Around 120 cadets from DAV Public School, Berhampur and Ganesh Vidyapeeth at Gandala village took part in this campaign. They took out a rally from the Berhampur railway station and moved around different parts of the city before ending it at the spot of beginning. The cadets raised slogans and distributed pamphlets to promote conservation of water and safeguards against contamination of water. They also held placards with messages related to water conservation and consumption of safe drinking water. District organising commissioner of Bharat Scouts and Guides Parakash Panda said the campaign was taken up in the city as chances of water contamination were quite high in this water scarce area. Principal of DAV Public School Deep Gambhir said children were most prone to health hazards caused by water contamination and it can be easily checked through simple measures of hygiene and sanitation, which were elucidated to the public by the students. The young campaigners of safe drinking water for all were also conscious about the fact that Berhampur has very low ground water supply and its population was increasing. They met people during the campaign and made them understand the state of drinking water sources, their conservation and management so that we can meet the problems caused due to erratic monsoon rains. The cadets took a vow to make their friends and family conscious about proper utilisation of water, which starting to become a major scarce resource in future. Mr Panda said to make the cadets conscious abut the issues that face general public three more campaigns would be taken up by the Bharat Scouts and Guides in Berhampur. These campaigns would be related to plantation drive, HIV/AIDS awareness and eradication of child labour. These campaigns by Scouts and Guides would be initiated by Aug 15.