The Family Planning Association of India (FPAI) will launch Repositioning Family Planning, a multilateral initiative to ensure visibility, availability, and quality of family planning services for increased contraceptive use and healthy timing and spacing of births, ultimately, improved quality of life across the region. FPAI Bellary branch Manager S.V. Kulkarni told presspersons here on Thursday that the decision to launch the initiative called Repositioning of Family Planning was taken at an international seminar of the FPAI recently. Mr. Kulkarni said that it has been noticed that the population growth rate has been on the rise as the health and related departments were busy in taking steps to prevent spread of communicable diseases such as HIV/AIDS, dengue, and A(H1N1) among others. So, very little time was left with the department officials to implement the family planning programmes. According to a survey, inadequate information about family planning methods, lack of access to family planning services and such other factors were leading to increase in population. Traditional beliefs favouring high fertility, religious barriers, and lack of male involvement have weakened family planning interventions. The combination of these factors has led to low contraceptive use, high fertility rates in India, and high unmet needs for family planning throughout the region. According to him, the population growth rate in Bellary was around 14.5 which was little less to national average of 15.4 but higher to the State average 12.4. In order to ensure that the family planning programmes are effectively implemented using the available resources, the Bellary branch of FPAI has organised a seminar on September 4 to discuss the problems in implementing the programme and ways to overcome them. Officials from the Department of Health, representatives of the non-governmental organisations and other like-minded associations will take part in the seminar. Health Minister B. Sriramulu will inaugurate the seminar. It will be organised in association with the Bellary Journalists' Guild. Physician B.K. Srinivas Murthy will preside over the seminar. The former Chief Planning Officer Veera Shankar Reddy will speak on repositioning of family planning and Siddaiah Hiremath, reporter of a Kannada daily, will speak on the role of journalists in repositioning family planning. Zilla panchayat president N. Rudragouda, Mayor Noorjahan, Chairman FPAI Bellary S. Vijayasimha, president of the Bellary Journalists' Guild N. Veerbhadragouda, Information Officer H. Srinivas, and District Health Officer Jayakumar will be the chief guests.