G. NARASIMHA RAO There were words of appreciation as well as caution from Vice-Chancellor B. Satyanarayana when he spoke during the inaugural ceremony of an orientation programme for university teachers, organised by the Andhra University's UGC-Academic Staff College. Time management is very important for a teacher and if the teacher is not punctual, the student emulates him or her. Teachers need to do a lot of exercise since the present generation students have a lot of spark, very intelligent and creative. Preparing the lesson plan is crucial before an interactive session because the students know the topic that is going to be discussed, said Prof. Satyanarayana. Then he went on to defend the teachers. Some feel that teachers, who teach three hours a day get a huge salary (disproportionate) but not many are aware of the fact that for one hour class work, a teacher has to prepare for four to six hours. Teachers are always learners, they continuously pursue knowledge and therefore the salaries are justified, the VC concluded. Director of UGC-ASC G. Ramachandrudu spoke about the current scenario of higher education in India and the Government's efforts to increase the number of institutions of higher education and to provide quality education. ASC faculty M. Ramesh Babu and N.A.V. Prasad Reddy, senior professors V. Krishna Murthy, Ch. Appa Rao, T. Subbarayudu and others were present. Fifty teachers, including four from outside AP are attending the orientation programme. Twenty one teachers from Acharya Nagarjuna University and 19 from AU are among them. Department of Social Work of Andhra University organised a workshop for school teachers on behalf of Childline, a nodal organisation being run by it. Prof. Satyanarayana who inaugurated the workshop, reminded the teachers of their great importance in shaping up the future of children. The teachers must encourage parents to provide education to children below the 14 years of age without fail. HoD and Director of Childline R.D. Sampath Kumar explained about the aims of the workshop and the steps being taken by the Government in protecting children's rights. Director of Childline Colab Gantela Sumana, Deputy Education Officer of GVMC J. Jaya Kumari, Lecturer of NSS Training Centre S. Harinath, Childline city coordinator Lalita Kumari and Childline Colab coordinator B. Satyanarayana spoke. Post-graduate Department of Biochemistry of Dr. L. Bullayya PG College organised a seminar on “genomics of restriction modification enzymes”. Prof. D.N. Rao of Department of Biochemistry of Indian Institute of Sciences, Bangalore spoke on the topic and stressed on the importance of biochemistry. Director (academics and administration) K. Bhaskara Reddy, Dean G. Lokeswara Reddy, HoD G.V. Sakunthala, HoD of Microbiology T. Lalitha, HoD of Biotechnology P. Padminipriya Chandrika and others participated. National Service Scheme volunteers of Chaitanya Degree and PG College for Women, as part of a special camp they are attending, conducted an AIDS awareness really at Reddy Tunglam and Kapu Tunglam villages. Principal M.V. Ramana Rao flagged of the rally. The NSS volunteers also formed a human chain. A free dental camp was also organised as part of the special camp at Tunglam with the help of GITAM Dental Collge. Corporator G.V. Krishna Rao inaugurated the camp. Dr Manisha and 15 dental students examined the patients. Programme Officers P.V. Rao and K. Maheswara Rao and college faculty participated. A special camp of NSS unit of GITAM Institute of Technology commenced at Endada and Peda Rushikonda. Deputy Mayor K. Dora Babu inaugurated the camp. Vice-Chancellor G. Subramanyam inaugurated a free medical camp organised as part of the camp while Registrar M. Potharaju opened a free engineering service programme. Principal of GITAM Institute of Technology G. Gopala Krishna inaugurated the CRD. NSS Programme Coordinator of AU P. Ramachandra Rao was present. NSS Programme Coordinator of GITAM University M. Ramesh, Director (students affairs) Dharma Raju, NSS POs J. Anitha and A. Ch. Sudhir and others participated. About 200 NSS volunteers of GITAM would participate in several programmes during the camp. National Service Scheme volunteers of St. Joseph's College for Women participated in cleaning and beautification programme at AU Central Library, as part of their special camping programme from January 18 to 24. The 98 volunteers were guided by the programme officers P. Krishna Kumari and P. Sarada. Students of I and II years of BBM course of Aditya Degree College bid farewell to the final year students at a function held last week. HoD of Commerce and Management Studies of AU Balla Appa Rao was chief guest. Principal T. Theophilus presided. HoD of Commerce and Management of Aditya College A. Sai Lakshmi, faculty members K.V. Nagaraj and K. Surendra Reddi and others were present. B. Hemanth Kumar an alumnus of ANITS (CSE department) and now working as Test Engineer at Infosys, Hyderabad, delivered a lecture on ‘Testing Methodologies' here at the college recently. Prof. Sathapathy, HOD of CSE presided over the programme. Secretary of the college V. Thapovardhan and Principal V.S.R.K. Prasad were present.