THREE GENERATIONS OF SHIV SENA: Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray with his son Uddhav Thackeray and Grandson Aditya Thackeray. According to reports Aditya Thackeray is all set to lead the Youth wing of Shiv Sena. A file Photo: Vivek Bendre    Shiv Sena will launch its youth wing at its annual Dussehra rally on October 17, an event which will see three generations of Thackerays sharing the dais for the first time. The party is all set to launch Yuva Sena, to be helmed by 20-year-old Aditya, grandson of Sena chief Bal Thackeray. “In a grand function Sena has decided to launch Yuva Sena, youth wing of the party which would be led by Aditya,” a senior party leader said. Bal Thackeray himself would be present on the occasion to launch and guide the party’s youth wing. Party executive president Uddhav and his son Aditya would also speak. Of late, Aditya had vehemently opposed Rohinton Mistry’s ‘Such A Long Journey’ as it reportedly contained anti-Sena remarks. As a result, the book which was prescribed for Mumbai University’s BA degree course, was scrapped from the syllabus by the varsity. Earlier, he had opposed caste-based census and standard of food served in college canteens in the metropolis. Of the party’s 45 MLAs, 10 to 15 MLAs are between 25 and 30 years and they will be working with Aditya as he chalks out plans to draw more youth towards the party. The MLAs likely to be part of Aditya’s core team include Captain Abhijit Adsul, Dr Balaji Kinikar, Dnyanraj Chougule, Rupesh Mhatre, Omprakash Raje Nimbalkar, Sanjay Shirsat and Santosh Sambre, party sources said. According to a party leader, overwhelming response to youth leaders like Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, MNS chief Raj Thackeray has forced Shiv Sena to come up with Yuva Sena. However, the move has surprised several party men, as Sena already has a youth wing, Bhartiya Vidhyarthi Sena (BVS). Explaining the rationale behind the move, the party leader said BVS has members who all are 35-plus. Therefore, the party is planning to introduce young faces, the leader added. Earlier, police citing silence zone norms had denied permission to the historic rally, annually held at Shivaji Park Ground in central Mumbai, following which the party moved the Bombay High Court. The verdict is expected soon. Extending its support, even the Maharashtra Government had said Sena should be allowed to hold rally at Shivaji Park.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 1:07:54 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Shiv-Sena-to-launch-its-youth-wing-at-Dussehra-rally/article15773164.ece   © The Hindu 