S he's 19 for god's sake! But looks way older than most 19 year olds. She rules the universe. She's stunningly tall, sleek and has the smartest bob I've seen on a pretty head in a long time. She has a free apartment in New York city. She travels the world, gets the best of shoes and clothes, and loads of money. And did I mention a glittering tiara? But then, she isn't the “average” 19-year-old. either. Stefania Fernandez comes from that part of the world where beauty queens are waiting in the wings every year to dazzle on the world pedestal — Venezuela. The bright-eyed Miss Universe 2009, who got into the pageant circuit when she was 16, is in India creating awareness on HIV/AIDS and female foeticide. Shepherded by Sanjana Jon, the fashion designer, on a Miss Universe AIDS Awareness Tour to Asia, Stefania has taken this campaign to Delhi, Gurgaon (Haryana) and Bangalore. Sanjana's event management group IG International annually ropes in the reigning Miss Universe for such tours. How is this awareness essentially spread? Sanjana Jon pointed out that while they would have liked to go have a “hands on” experience in the villages of Haryana, there wasn't much time. “We are firstly creating awareness through the media first. And we're also making a music video on the lines of ‘Miley sur mera tumhara' with Sajid-Wajid, featuring celebrities.” Beauty queens have weighty responsibilities such as spreading awareness on catastrophic issues, resting on their shoulders. It's only natural then, to know how the year has fared for Stefania. “When I started, I didn't speak any English and Donald Trump (owner of the Miss Universe Organisation) said ‘You must learn English' and so I started classes…then I began to travel the world. But there are so many countries that speak Spanish. I haven't been able to practise my English, and now I know so many cultures and I'm speaking about HIV/AIDS wherever I go,” she rattles off with a thick accent. She won her first title of Miss Venezuela at 17. What is it about Venezuela that it is able to produce finalists and crown-winners so often? “We don't have a big secret,” she laughsDid Stefania aspire to be Miss Universe? “I was tall in school and wanted to contest for Miss Venezuela…but my mum always said ‘Study, study. Finish school.'” Once she finished school, she got on the beauty pageant bandwagon. Venezuela is also legendary for the large number of plastic surgeries its women undergo, I point out. And many beauty queens have been known to go under the knife. Should beauty be judged despite being tampered with? “To those people who have had surgery, I'd say, ‘Ok good.' But it's not only in Venezuela that it's happening. Miss Universe is not about finding one girl who is beautiful; it's about finding one girl with a personality.” As part of the Miss Universe goodie bag, she gets a two-year scholarship from the New York Film Academy. Is that on the cards next? “First I have to learn English well. Then I will go to University in Venezuela and study communication and then I'll do this course,” she says, her expressive eyes sparkling with excitement. BHUMIKA K.