A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court Bench here claiming that a person could not be denied government job on the sole ground that he or she was tested positive for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) during the medical examination. A 39-year-old man from Virudhunagar district had filed the petition after being denied a driver's job in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). Justice K. Chandru ordered notice to the Secretaries of the Health and Transport Departments. . According to the petitioner, he was recommended by the employment exchange for the post of driver in October last and asked to undergo a medical examination before an authorised physician of the TNSTC. Then, little did he know that his blood samples would be used for testing the presence of HIV even without his consent. The staff at the laboratory neither gave a pre-test counselling before collecting the samples nor a post-test counselling while announcing the results to him as per norms of the World Health Organisation, the petitioner claimed and alleged that the doctor too refused to hand over the medical fitness certificate to him. “I submit that thereafter I was informed by the Assistant Manager of TNSTC orally that though I was otherwise fit, in the absence of a medical fitness certificate, I could not be given appointment… I was also informed that TNSTC does not allow recruitment of persons infected with HIV,” his affidavit read. “It is a serious concern that people living with HIV/AIDS are often denied jobs… The employers cannot legitimately require HIV testing of a prospective or current employee and do not have the right to divulge personal information that the employee may not want to disclose. “Every person has the right to privacy which is the right to determine for themselves when, how and to what extent information about them is communicated to others,” the petitioner said.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 1:02:04 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/HIV-positive-person-seeks-government-job/article15769847.ece   © The Hindu 