appreciation: Suresh Kumar, District Revenue Officer, giving away the certificate to N. Subramaniam, who has donated blood 85 times in Thanjavur on Saturday. — Photo: M.SRINATH    "Blood is meant to circulate. Pass it around", said a caption in a drawing displayed at the national blood donation celebrations at Thanjavur Medical College Auditorium here on Saturday. Medical students displayed their drawings on blood donation . Blood donors were honoured at the function by C.Suresh Kumar, District Revenue Officer. The donors who got the appreciation at the function were Subramanyam of Indian Overseas Bank, who has donated blood 75 times, Sathoji Rao from Tiruvarur, who has donated blood for 65 times. Sivakumar of Bharath Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL), who has donated blood for 20 times and others. Dr.Radhika Michael, Blood Bank Officer, Thanjavur Medical College Hospital said that those who organise blood donation camps act as a bridge between donors, patients and doctors. Educational institutions, voluntary organisations, political parties (during birthday celebrations of their leaders) help in organising such camps. They are also honoured in this function, Michael said. The colleges which got the appreciation were Bharath College of Science and Management, Shanmugha Arts Science Technology and Research Academy (SASTRA) University, Periyar Maniammai University, Ponnaiah Ramajayam Institute of Science and Technology (PRIST) University and Sri AVVM Pushpam college at Poondi. Speaking on the occasion Ravishankar, Dean of Thanjavur Medical College, G.Ambujam, Medical Superintendent of Thanjavur Medical College, K.Mathivanan, Deputy Director Health, Thanjavur district, Sahaya Mary Reeta, Deputy Director of Health, Tiruvarur district, Punitha Ganesan, Secretary of Bharath College of Science and Management participated in the function. The function was jointly organised by Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society, Tamil Nadu State Blood Transfusion Society and Thanjavur Medical College Hospital.