New facility:Law Minister Durai Murugan speaking at the inaugural function of the upgraded Primary Health Centre building in Vaduganthangal near Katpadi on Friday. S. Jagathrakshakan, Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, is also in the picture.    Special Correspondent VELLORE: The Tamil Nadu government will soon have a tie-up with the Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore for implementation of the Kalaignar Health Scheme for Life Saving Treatment in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts, according to Law Minister Durai Murugan. Inaugurating the new building of the Upgraded 30-bed Primary Health Centre in Vaduganthangal in K.V. Kuppam Panchayat Union near Katpadi on Friday, Mr. Durai Murugan said that he personally spoke to the CMC Hospital Director Suranjan Bhattacharjee and requested him to take up the implementation of the Kalaignar Health Scheme in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts so as to enable the eligible patients in the two districts to have the benefit of life-saving treatment in the hospital. The Director agreed to his suggestion and promised to open an office in the CMC Hospital, exclusively for the Kalaignar Health Scheme. M.K. Stalin, Deputy Chief Minister would visit Vellore shortly and inaugurate the scheme in the CMC Hospital, he said. The Law Minister congratulated the doctors, nurses and other staff of the PHC in Vaduganthangal on the reputation they have earned among the public for their devotion to duty. He requested the Deputy Director of Health Services, Tirupattur, B. Premkumar, to upgrade all other PHCs in the Tirupattur Health Unit District on the model of the Vaduganthangal PHC. He wanted all the PHCs in Vellore district to be upgraded to the level of the PHC in Banavaram. While new buildings have been built for the PHCs in Pasumathur, K.V. Kuppam, Vaduganthangal and Latheri, a new building is under construction for the PHC in Kanguppam, he said. The Minister promised to speak to the State Health Minister and obtain the ‘108' ambulance service for Vaduganthangal. Mr. Durai Murugan said that the Katpadi-Venkatagirikotta Road, which at present is a State Highway, is to be converted into a National Highway soon. When it becomes a National Highway, street lights would be installed on the entire stretch of the Highway from Katpadi to Gudiyatham. S. Jagathrakshakan, Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting said that the Kalaignar Health Scheme ensured quality medical treatment to the poor people on par with the treatment available to the rich. He appealed to the public to make use of the PHC in Vaduganthangal. Dr. Premkumar said that 300 patients are being treated in the PHC in Vaduganthangal every day. The PHC handled 30 to 40 deliveries every month. Six in-patients were admitted to the PHC every day. The PHC also has the facilities of testing for Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), ophthalmology, skin diseases and tuberculosis. G. Thyagarajan, Superintending Engineer, Public Works Department, Vellore said that the new PHC building has been constructed on a floor space area of 5000 square feet at a cost of Rs.62 lakh.