For a cause: District in-charge and Minor Irrigation Minister Govind Karjol and actor Pooja Gandhi participating in the door-to-door HIV/AIDS awareness campaign in Mudhol taluk of Bagalkot district on Monday.    District in-charge and Minor Irrigation Minister has said that one of the major reasons for the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS cases in Mudhol and Jamkhandi taluks of Bagalkot district is because people hesitate to approach doctors for getting medical treatment. Mr. Karjol was speaking after inaugurating a ‘Mane Manege Mahiti', a door-to-door campaign launched to spread awareness on HIV/AIDS. The district administration, zilla panchayat and the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS) had jointly organised the programme here on Monday. He said that HIV positive people can lead normal lives if they get proper medical treatment and advice on how to prevent spread of the disease. He said sportsperson and film personalities have been involved in the HIV/AIDS awareness campaign and the Government wants to make the campaign a successful one. Mr. Karjol said that it was necessary that people with HIV/AIDS are treated with dignity and humanity. He said that doctors play a vital role in helping people with HIV/AIDS remain in the mainstream. The doctors should not refuse to treat the patients as it will demoralise them and they will hesitate further to approach a doctor for advice and treatment. Actor Pooja Gandhi, who participated in the door-to-door campaign, called upon the people to understand the reasons for the spread of HIV/AIDS. People who have contracted the disease should adopt a positive approach to life, she added. Speaking on the objectives of the programme, KSAPS trainer Shashidhar explained how interventions was successful among the female sex workers, men having sex with men (MSM) and migrants but felt that a lot of work needs to be done to prevent spread of the virus among bridge population like clients of sex workers. He spoke on how important it was for pregnant women to get themselves tested for HIV/AIDS. He said only a small section of the population was making use of the free treatment available for preventing the spread of the disease from mother to child. Although every primary health centre offers free medical treatment, a small section of pregnant women make use of it, he said. A procession was taken out by ASHA workers and NSS cadets. The six-day door-to-door campaign is aimed at reaching out to 90 per cent of the adult population in Mudhol and Jamakhandi taluks of Bagalkot district.