A noted HIV physician has mooted a proposal to include treatment of people living with HIV/AIDS under Rajiv Arogyasri programme. Expressing concern over poor research funding holding back efforts to cure HIV/AIDS and develop a vaccine, Dr. Kutikuppala Surya Rao, a city-based physician who set a Guinness Book of World Records for designing the largest red ribbon last year, thinks that the insurance agencies should also cover HIV/AIDS treatment. In an interview to   on the eve of World AIDS Day, he said at least to start with, the Andhra Pradesh Government should take the initiative to extend treatment for Rajiv Arogyasri card holders. “Universal access and human rights” is the theme for World AIDS Day 2010 being observed on December 1. “To lead a healthy life, a HIV positive individual needs nutritious diet, family support, timely laboratory investigations and regular use of antiretroviral treatment (ART) with good adherence. For all these components financial support is of paramount importance. And this aspect can be fulfilled by the insurance companies, provided they have human face,” he said. He regretted that unfortunately many companies in India are not accepting HIV positive people for insurance coverage. Insurance companies like Star though proactive to give policy to AIDS patients, their area of operations were very limited. “At this point, I would like to question, when many diseases such as renal failure, kidney transplantations, heart attacks, strokes, cancers etc., have been included under insurance benefits, why AIDS patients are being discriminated against? Why are they not being covered under the super hit Arogyasri scheme'?” Stating that it was violation of human rights of HIV/AIDS patients, he contended that the life of a person with kidney disease was not more precious than the life of a poor AIDS patient. This type of disparities and imbalances should not be a welcome feature in health sector, he pointed out. At least the government machinery should not treat HIV/AIDS disease and AIDS patients in isolation as untouchables. “Rather it is the responsibility of all of us in society to accept them as fellow human beings and give them an opportunity to live with dignity by getting regular ART and nutritious supplements to lead a near normal life,” he opined.