An art and craft competition was conducted at Kamak Nursery and Primary School, Tuticorin, with the objective of bringing out the latent talent of children. The nursery students were asked to colour the given picture and handicrafts were made by them using clay, cereals, colour beads and waste. An art and craft exhibition was held at the school the next day. Students and parents visited the exhibition. A project displayed by N. Ramganesh of class IX of Government Higher Secondary School, Kuruvikulam, won appreciation at a science and technology exhibition organised at PSR Engineering College, Sivakasi. The project was about generating power from urine. The student was awarded a prize and certificate for the model. An AIDS awareness programme was conducted by the National Cadet Corps of Kshatriya Vidhyasala Higher Secondary School, Virudhunagar. The Headmaster, S. Chandramohan, presided. The Assistant Headmaster, N. Karthikeyan, and PG Assistant in Botany A. Boomiraj spoke about HIV and AIDS and the need to prevent infection. C.S. Shivasankar welcomed and R. Mareeswaran proposed a vote of thanks. Students of S. B. K. K. S. S. Thiyagarajan Memorial Matriculation School, Aruppukottai, won the championship at a State-level skating competition conducted by Nehru Yuva Kendra and Virudhunagar District Roller Skating Association. The school secretary, I. Ramachandran, president C. Jegadeesan and Principal K. Manonmani congratulated the winners. Free bicycles were handed over to eleventh standard students of S. H. N. Ethel Harvey Girls' Higher Secondary School, Sattur, by the Minister for Backward Classes Welfare, K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran. He also addressed the students about the need for education of women and the schemes implemented by the State Government for their welfare. The Chief Educational Officer, Pandi, also addressed the gathering. Jayachandran, president of the school, presided. K. Leen Rose Mary, Headmistress, welcomed the gathering. The kindergarten students of AUPET Chinmaya Vidyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Palayamkottai, celebrated the ‘pink colour day' wearing pink outfits. They brought pink objects from home and exhibited them in the assembly and spoke about them as part of their ‘show & tell.” They brought pink flowers for their flower arrangement montessori lesson. They prepared pink paper garlands. Students speak out To hone oratorical skills, a public speaking competition for the primary students was held on the following topics; “My family,” “My favourite story books” and “Why I like Tirunelveli.” This skill can be honed only by practising in front of an audience. . Clay models made Students of Standard VI made shapes and models out of clay. In addition, using cardboard, coconut husk, empty matchboxes they made articles. Students expressed their innate skills in many ways. The students of Sri Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal Golden Jubilee Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Sankarnagar organised a “Diabetics Walk” to mark the World Diabetes Day. The walk served the twin purpose of celebrating World Diabetics Day and Children's Day. Around 300 students participated carrying placards with information about diabetes. The walk was organised by N.S. Balakrishnan of Sankar Hospital, Tirunelveli, and flagged off by Panner Selvam of Sneha hospital. The ‘diabetes lamp' was lit as a mark of spreading the awareness of the disease. Students of Magdalene Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Rahmath Nagar, celebrated Children's day along with their parents by planting hundreds of saplings. The function was presided over by G. Samuel Raj Kumar, Forest Range Officer of Tirunelveli. He explained about how trees play a vital role in offering a healthy environment. Prabhakar, Secretary, Indian Red Cross , Tirunelveli, felicitated the students and parents. A hundred saplings were given to the school by the Forest Department. Students, parents and teachers took a pledge to preserve nature by planting and growing trees. Some saplings were planted inside the school campus and the rest was distributed to the parents and students. Correspondent Selvaraj welcomed. Margaret Selvaraj proposed a vote of thanks.