For a good cause: The awareness cycle rally on HIV/AIDS affected children from Coimbatore reached Salem on Wednesday. — Photo: P. Goutham    The cycle rally to create awareness on children affected with HIV/AIDS, organised jointly by Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) and The Tamil Nadu Trust for Children Affected by HIV/AIDS (TNTCAA), evoked an overwhelming response in Salem on Wednesday. The rally with 100 participants from Coimbatore reached Salem on Wednesday morning after covering Karur, Tirupur, Namakkal and Erode districts and was proceeding to Dharmapuri on way to Chennai via Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, Tirutani and Tiruvallur. The rally will reach Chennai on December 1, World AIDS day. Salem Collector J. Chandrakumar received the participants and flagged off their second and final leg of the rally schedule. Health officials including Joint Director of Medical Sciences Dr. Gnanasekaran, District Programme Manager Dr. Arunachalam and others were present besides representatives from non government organisation, which work among the Positive people in this region. The Trust to work among the children affected with the dreaded disease under the aegis of TANSACS had been allotted a sum of Rs. 5 crore, which would serve as a corpus fund. Efforts were also on to mobilise more funds from Corporate and other organizations. The Trust would provide necessary care and protection to the vulnerable children and had been taking care of the educational, nutritional and others special care packages to the affected children, around 1,595 at present, in the State. It had given a sum of Rs. 4.21 lakh to 126 affected children in Salem district among whom a few had reached the portals of Higher Education. A total of 5,725 people with HIV are on antiretroviral drug in Salem, which include 325 children. As a gesture, the staff of TANSACS also donated a day's wages to the Trust. Further details can be had from Dr. Arunachalam, District Programme Manager at 9842987224.