Caring the incurable: S.P. Rajalingam (second from left), Post Master General, Central Region (TN), handing over the special postal cover to David Brail (second from right), Chief Executive Officer, Help the Hospice, UK, at the conference in Tiruchi on Friday.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent TIRUCHI: Palliative care would be included as a subject in the medical and nursing curriculum from the ensuing academic year so that it would develop as an obligatory component of health sciences, said Mayil Vahanan Natarajan, Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr. M. G. R. Medical University, here on Friday. Inaugurating the XVII International conference of Indian Association of Palliative Care organised by the Indian Association of Palliative Care (IAPC), the Vice-Chancellor said that a one-year Fellowship in Palliative Care would also be introduced soon. Dr. Natarajan said that it was unfortunate that the current medical curriculum, unlike in the West, did not have enough time and training devoted to palliative care, especially in the current era where it was complimentary to the principles and practice of all medical specialities. The Vice-Chancellor pointed out that medical profession had achieved a lot in treating reversible diseases and giving healthy life to patients. Every other day, a new innovation is added to assist and improve the health care management to patients. But, when it comes to palliative care, it is saddening to note that even the metropolitan cities of India have lacunae in providing the appropriate care, he said. He said that according to statistics, every year nearly one million Indians were added to cancer arena, not mention HIV/ AIDS and other incurable medical conditions. But less than one per cent of them have access to palliative care in our country, he added. Dr. Natarajan, who also released the conference souvenir, congratulated all the professionals involved in organising the conference and their efforts to create awareness on palliative care and diminish the human suffering. Dr. Sukdev Nayak, President of IAPC, explained in detail the services rendered by the IAPC and pointed out that palliative care was all about looking after people with illnesses that could not be cured, relieving their sufferings and supporting them through their difficult times. T. R. Pachamuthu, Chairman of Chennai Medical College Hospital and Research Centre of SRM Group of Institutions, David Prail, Chief Executive, Help the Hospice, UK, Dr. M. R. Rajagopal, Director, Pallium India, Dr. T. Mohanasundaram, organising secretary of the conference, Dr. Anil Kumar Paleri, secretary of IAPC, Dr. Zameer Pasha, vice-president of International College of Surgeons, Dr. G. Gopalakrishnan, president of Association of Psychiatry, Dr. Jayam Kannan, vice-president of Tiruchi Palliative Care Association, Dr. K. Govindaraj, secretary of Tiruchi Palliative Care Association spoke. Earlier, S. P. Rajalingam, Post Master General, Central Region, Tiruchi, released a special postal cover in commemoration of the conference which was received by David Prail, Chief Executive of Help the Hospice and Chairman of Worldwide Palliative Care Network, UK.