Staff Reporter BERHAMPUR: The Red Ribbon Clubs in colleges of HIV prevalent areas were advised to encourage youths to discard shyness and discuss about the problem. It was a major point of discussion in the workshop of counsellors of Red Ribbon Clubs from Ganjam, Gajapati and Kandhamal districts held in the city on Sunday. This workshop had been organised in the city by the Orissa State Aids Control Society (OSACS). It may be noted that Ganjam happens to be the most HIV prone area of Orissa and youths of rural areas, mostly migrant labourers are its victim. The national Vice-President of Youth Hostel Association, P.N.Dave, joint director of OSACS Tripati Mishra and its regional coordinator Lokanath Mishra attended this workshop. It was decided that the Red Ribbon Clubs of this region would open up special information cells on their college campus. These cells would impart knowledge about reproductive health, sanitation, Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI), Reproductive Tract Infection (RTI), safe sex etc. to the youth. Focussed intervention by the youth can be major obstacle in the path of rise in HIV positive persons in any region, said Mr. Dave. Mr. Mishra said it is high time to form a peer group who could build up consciousness against HIV and AIDS in a positive manner. Unless shyness is thrown away the girls who usually become silent victims of this epidemic cannot be saved, opined experts. It may be noted that Red Ribbon clubs have been formed in over 300 colleges in the State. In Ganjam district, which is the most HIV prone area in the State , there are more than 27 Red Ribbon Clubs. The counsellors were advised to make their information cells special units where youths especially the girls could openly discuss the issues related to HIV infection, AIDS and rehabilitation of HIV positive persons. According to them by shying away and hiding we were only promoting dogmas and false beliefs related to this grave medical problem. An aware mother, daughter or wife can easily prevent male members from getting infected by the HIV. The experts felt if the young girl students started to talk about it among other female members of their family and surrounding, the points of AIDS awareness would surely percolate to the women living in rural areas in near future.