He seems equally at ease with parallel cinema as with the commercial ones. But Bollywood actor Kunal Kapoor says he is more comfortable playing off-beat roles in which his anti-hero rebellious persona comes out. The actor admits that   gave him an excellent launch pad even though it was his second film. “A rebellious streak exists inside me; a person who doesn't follow rules and regulations. I feel it is important to convey certain things. What was highlighted in the film, that politicians are neck deep in corruption, is true. The sense of anger against politicians is palpable; many will say that they have let us down. I am not alone in such thinking.” The film stuck a sensitive chord with the masses. And the result – a candle light vigil was staged at India Gate to protest against acquittal of the main accused in the Jessica Lal murder case and the extensive media coverage of other events where it seemed there was miscarriage of justice. “While making the film we never realised that it would almost end up becoming a movement. I am happy that such a film came so early in my career,” says Kunal. Even though Aamir Khan is such a senior actor, he went out of his way to make Kunal feel important. “His portrayal of DJ was truly outstanding. He would drop by on the sets and make things light hearted for everyone.” Kunal feels it is important for him to work with directors whom he can trust to execute their scripts methodically. “If you trust the director then the comfort level is more and being on the sets a wonderful experience. But this doesn't mean that script doesn't have any significance. It is actually a combination of script and the director.” When opportunity came knocking on Kunal's door in the form of Rahul Dholakia's   he immediately grabbed it. In fact, he was yearning to be a part of Dholakia's films and the subject on Kashmir was not the usual jingoistic type. “During our first schedule of shooting in the Valley, we found the situation quite volatile. The State Assembly elections were round the corner and row over the Amarnath pilgrimage had just started. But the second schedule was filmed in a more conducive environment.” Agreeing that the current situation in the Valley was quite turbulent, Kunal doesn't like to comment on whether the Armed Forces Special Powers Act should be withdrawn from the State. “I read a lot about Kashmir but don't want to comment on matters that are of a political nature. No doubt a complicated situation exists there but don't want to give my assessment. It is eventually for the government to decide (whether to do away with AFSPA or not). The people of Kashmir want a solution to the problem; they have been suffering for the past 18 years. I have a lot of friends from the Valley who have been uprooted from their homes.” Among his future projects, Kunal is excited about heading to Berlin next month for the shooting of  . He says assuredly that he is not playing the role that was earlier offered to Arjun Rampal. “I don't think that Arjun could have played the character. It is early to talk about the role.” Theatre has played a valuable part in grooming the tall actor. It was veteran actor Naseeruddin Shah's theatre group Motley that was instrumental in moulding Kunal during his initial years as an actor. “Naseeruddin has a great stage presence; I learnt a lot from him. The value of learning the language -- speaking flawlessly is essential. Equally essential is the passion. For the past 40 years Naseeruddin has been consistently delivering good performances. In fact, he stressed the point to me that good performances don't happen accidentally. Lot of hard work goes into them.” From the quite laidback world of theatre, Kunal got a chance to work as an assistant to Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra during his initial days of an ad filmmaker. And from the ad world he got his first break as an assistant director in Mehra's  . “As in-charge of continuity and background action, I got a rare chance to see the incredible dedication of Amitabh Bachchan. He used to be on the sets on the dot and watch how actors were doing their part. I also got a chance to watch Manoj Bajpai. Through their works Amitji, Naseeruddin and Aamir Khan have shown us that a whole lot of hard work goes into acting.” Conceding that he is an outsider in Bollywood, Kunal says it has its disadvantages when compared to actors whose parents or forefathers have been firmly entrenched in the industry. “They have an advantage as the audience associates them with certain characters played by their relatives. There are both advantages and disadvantages for them but the positives are certainly more. Among the young crop of actors, I am among the few who are not from the industry.” Kunal is happy that a two-day film festival titled “Eight -- International Short Film Festival on the 8 Millennium Development Goals” concluded in the Capital over the weekend.“It is important to talk about issues like universal primary education, gender equity, child health, maternal health, combat HIV/AIDS and environmental sustainability through the medium of cinema.” For over a year now, Kunal has been associated with Save the Children's Every One campaign that focuses on tackling child mortality. “To do this, we need to see progress on other Millennium Development Goals such as tackling under nutrition, reducing maternal mortality and improving girls' education. We know this we can do this and must change.” Besides acting, Kunal has other interests. He has dabbled in the stock market and has a passion for flying.