Michael D’Costa and his wife, Michelle    T.V. Sivanandan GULBARGA: Michael D’Costa and his wife, Michelle, gave up a life of comfort in Mumbai and chose Gulbarga as their new home in 2003. Since then, they have been spending most of their time in ensuring the well-being of residents of the Mahatma Gandhi Leprosy Colony on the outskirts of Gulbarga. Mr. D’Costa, a father of three, was into catering business in Mumbai till 1999. “I gave up the business and decided to serve leprosy-affected persons. My endeavour was supported initially by the Tree of Life Church in Mumbai,” he said. Mr. D’Costa’s chance visit to Gulbarga in 2003 to see a person suffering from leprosy and HIV, who used to come to Mumbai often, changed the course of his life. “During my visit to the leprosy colony here, I decided to stay back as I thought my presence was required here more than anywhere else. When I sought the support of the church to serve those with leprosy in Gulbarga, the church initially refused to fund my endeavour. Later, they agreed to provide funds only for six months,” he said. Mr. D’Costa, who does not believe in mixing service with religion, said a team from the church visited Gulbarga after six months to review his work and decided to stop the funding “as the work was not in accordance with the wishes of the church”. Since then, Mr. D’Costa has been on his own. “Funds have not been a problem for me… God has been very kind, and till this day my work has not stopped for want of money,” he said. Mr. D’Costa, who set up Karuna Charitable Trust six years ago, has brought about all-round development in the colony. It has a six-bed hospital, a clinic with modern facilities, a skill training centre with sewing machines and computers to train children of leprosy patients. “We have also put 21 children of people with leprosy in boarding schools in Goa,” he said. The trust has purchased 20 acres of land at Farhatabad. An agricultural and horticultural farm has been developed on it. “My wife has been a great source of support,” he added.