The latest figure of prevalence of HIV in the State will be released next month, said P. Amudha, Project Director, Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) here on Thursday. She said that the prevalence of HIV had come down significantly in recent years owing to some pro-active steps taken across the State particularly in the high-risk districts. “The latest figures based on a survey done in 2009 have been compiled and they will be published next month. Preliminary figures have indicated that the HIV prevalence was reduced sharply since effective surveillance was in place to prevent transmission from mother to child,” she said. Ms. Amudha was speaking at the inauguration of new building for Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) centre at the Government Hospital in Melur near here. She said that the goal of TANSACS was to ensure that there were no new HIV-AIDS infections by the year 2012 and that no child was born with HIV. “In 2001, the overall prevalence rate of HIV in the State was 1.13 per cent. It was brought down to 0.25 per cent in 2007 by adopting various strategies. The survey figures for 2009 will be released by us next month,” she said. She appealed to the public, philanthropists/donors and corporate houses to generously contribute money to a special trust formed for supporting the HIV- infected and affected children. The special trust, ‘Tamil Nadu Trust for Children Affected by HIV-AIDS,' was set up last year under the aegis of TANSACS with a corpus of Rs.5 crore. Through this trust, nearly 1,600 children (both infected and affected) are being supported. “There are another 7,000 children looking out for financial support in the State right now. We are looking for donors to increase the trust's corpus to Rs.30 crore so that all children can receive assistance from us,” she said. For this Trust, the employees of TANSACS had made voluntary contribution of a day's salary this month. The Tamil Nadu Health Minister had donated his two month's salary and actor Kamal Hasan had joined the cause to help the innocent victims, she said. She stressed that special focus was being given to pregnant women in a bid to check the HIV transmission from mother to child through intervention strategy. C. Kamaraj, Collector, R. T. Porkai Pandiyan, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, A. Palanichamy, Deputy Director of Health Services, and P. Ashok Kumar, district panchayat president, were present.