The State Government has undertaken a Health City project in city at a cost of Rs. 800 crore spanning over 25 acres of land to provide a self-sustaining health cluster that comprises the healthcare eco-system with the presence of leading super-specialty hospitals, rehabilitation centres, wellness centres, holistic healing centres, specialised medical research units and recreation centres. It is also said that the State has the largest number of medical and nursing colleges in the country. Thrust is also being given to Ayurveda, naturopathy and integrated medicine to make the State a leading destination for medical tourism and has proposed to set up a AYUSH Institute of Sciences on the lines All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The 2010-2011 budget has a lot in store for the health sector, with an estimated Rs. 2,763 crore being allocated. Although no new schemes are on the cards, the existing schemes are being expanded to cover more people across the State. The “Vajpayee Arogya Sri Yojana”, which was launched this year, has been operational in Bellary, Bidar, Gulbarga, Raichur, Koppal and Bijapur districts, benefitting nearly 15 lakh below poverty line families by providing free medical treatment and surgeries up to a limit of Rs. 2 lakh per family. With Rs. 40 crore being set aside for this scheme, the Government plans to expand it to other districts in a phased manner. At a time when mortality rates were high in the rural areas due to lack of transport and treatment facilities during emergencies, Arogya Kavacha's 108 ambulance service literally became a Sanjeevini. The service has effectively tackled deaths occurring due to non-availability of timely medical care, especially in cases of accidents and deliveries, saving as many as five lakh lives and over one crore calls being attended to so far. There are 517 ambulances operating in 30 districts under the scheme. Blood transportation vehicles, funded by National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) were flagged off recently which will be used for testing, collecting and transporting blood to hospitals where there is a deficit. One vehicle each was sent to Victoria, Bowring and KC General Hospitals in Bangalore, KR Hospital in Mysore, Belgaum District Hospital, Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubli and Shimoga Institute of Medical Sciences, District Government Hospital in Gulbarga and Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Science in Bellary. As many as 30 storage units were also established in First Referral Units. Health Minister B. Sriramulu recently announced that the Rs. 9 crore has been spent on the Suvarna Arogya Chaitanya scheme, under which students are treated for free and medical tests are conducted for them. He added that the budget to treat haemophilia patients would be increased to Rs. 1 crore. As many as 142 taluk hospitals will be upgraded as First Referral Units to ensure treatment by specialist doctors in the rural areas at a sum of Rs. 100 crore. The Government has also announced plans of setting up super-specialty hospitals in Kengeri and the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Bellary. The Hrudaya Sanjivani scheme will be given a boost to provide kidney treatment facilities to the poor. branch of Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology was established in Hubli at a cost of Rs. 5 crore to cater to the people of North Karnataka. The Bhagyalakshmi scheme has successfully been providing free medical facilities to girl children. On the other hand, rural women have been able to avail free maternity services or a special assistance to get maternity care in private hospitals. Staff Reporter