Adventurous: (From left) NCC cadets of Thiagarajar College of Engineering who undertook a trekking expedition to Alagarkoil; School children learning to operate computers at K.L. N. College of Engineering; The souvenir of a technical symposium being released at Sethu Institute of Technology.    Traffic Control Day was observed by 4 (TN) Engineer Company, National Cadet Corps of Thiagarajar College of Engineering. NCC cadets of schools and colleges participated in the event, which was inaugurated by Captain V.G. Subramanian, Commanding Officer. The objective of the event was to create awareness among public of traffic rules and regulations. Sub Inspector Mehabhuba presided. An awareness lecture was delivered by Sub-Inspector Paramasivam. Students and cadets of Thiagarajar College of Engineering led an awareness rally taken out on the occasion. NCC cadets of the college undertook a trekking expedition to Alagarkoil hills. They performed various cultural activities at the hill. The trekking expedition was organised by Lance Corporal E.S. Santhosh Kumar 4 (TN) Engineer Company as a part of adventurous activities of NCC. Lieut. R. Muruganandham guided the trekkers. *** The Department of Management Studies of K. L. N. College of Engineering organised a two-day community development programme for students of Government Middle School, Viradhanur. College students provided computer training to the middle school children. T. Jothimurugan, Director, MBA, welcomed the gathering. S. Ganapathy, Principal, inaugurated the programme. A. C. Kannan proposed a vote of thanks. MS Techno Club of Department of Computer Science and Engineering of the college organised a conference on Visual Studio 2010 and Dot Net framework in which around 500 students from various engineering colleges participated. N. Lakshminarasimman, Head, Department of CSE, welcomed the participants. The resource person, Pradeep Mettu of Microsoft, spoke about Visual Studio 2010 and how to build applications using it. Mr. Pradeep motivated the students to learn more about new technologies to get a job in Microsoft. In the certificate distribution function, B.V.S. Pavithra, Microsoft Student Partner (MSP), delivered the welcome address. Certificates were distributed to the participants by T.K. Mahendrababu, advisor, and R.T. Sakthidharan, Dean (Academic). R. Gayathridevi proposed a vote of thanks. The Department of CSE conducted a workshop on computer hardware and software for employees of offices of the Department of Registration. T.G. Rishi Babu demonstrated the working of hardware and I. Vincent explained the software and their utilities. D. Thangamari, Pabitha and J. Angeline spoke about the software applications of MS-Office applications. The Department of Mathematics organised the inaugural function of K.L.N. College of Engineering Science and Humanities Association. T. Veerarajan, Dean, Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, stressed that without mathematics, engineering would be meaningless. Mathematics was a must for all engineering students. K.S.K. Subramanian, Head, Department of Mathematics, welcomed the gathering. The Department of Electronics an Instrumentation Engineering organised a national-level technical symposium, ‘i Caliber '10.' It was inaugurated by M. Somasundaram, Deputy Chief Engineer, Neyveli Lignite Corporation. S. Nagammai, Head, Department of EIE, welcomed the gathering. The secretary, S.V.S. Shivnath, delivered the presidential address. R. Ganesan of R.V.S. College of Engineering and Technology, and S. Mythili of PSNA College of Engineering and Technology, Dindigul, evaluated the papers presented at the symposium. The Principal, Dr. Ganapathy, delivered the valedictory address. P. Ravi Kumar, Coordinator, proposed a vote of thanks. The ISTE Chapter of the college conducted a two-day staff orientation program on ‘Effective teaching methods' for young faculty members in which 30 staff members of various departments participated. S. Murugan, secretary, ISTE chapter, welcomed the gathering. The programme covered topics such as challenges faced by the teacher, communication skills, classroom management and research activities. S. Ilangovan proposed vote of thanks. *** A one day national-level symposium on research was organised by the Department of ICE of Sethu Institute of Technology, Pulloor. The resource person, Ramkumar of TCS, explained how the country's GDP could be increased through contribution in research and management. S. Mohamed Jaleel, chairman, presided. The Principal, A. Senthil Kumar, and CEO S.M. Seeni Mohideen addressed the gathering. The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering conducted a seminar on ‘Network communication.' In her inaugural address, S. E. Rajam, General Manager, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, spoke about the role played by optic fibre system in enhancing the quality of telecom services. A symposium organised by the Department of IT was inaugurated by Lakshman Prakash of TCS. Mr. Lakshman Prakash stressed the need to improve soft skills. A national-level technical symposium, EESOREST '10, was organised by the students' association of Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering. It was inaugurated by S. Chandrasekaran, Superintending Engineer, Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. SP. Umayal, Head, Department of EEE, welcomed the gathering. A souvenir was released on the occasion. About 150 students from various engineering colleges participated in the symposium and presented their technical papers. About 30 projects were kept on display. *** Red Ribbon Club of Vickram College of Engineering, Enathi, organised a drawing and story writing competition in which around 40 first and second year students participated. This competition was held on the theme ‘Evils and abolition of AIDS.' S. Kathirvelu, Principal, Vickram College of Engineering, presided. The winners received a medal and a certificate. The prize distribution function was presided over by V.M. Jose, who has donated blood 150 times. J.R. Surenderan, Programme Coordinator, and N. Nagarajan, Health Educator, Red Ribbon Club, Madurai, addressed the students. A medical awareness camp on asthma and respiratory disorders was conducted for students of Vickram College of Engineering, Vickram Polytechnic and Vickram Teacher Training College by the National Service Scheme units. Over 700 students and staff members underwent general and special check-up by a medical team headed by P. Prabhakaran of Devadoss Multispeciality Hospital. A one-day national seminar on ‘All round developments achieved through technologies' was organised at the college in association with the Madurai local centre of the Institution of Engineers. R. Murugesan, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University of Technology, Madurai, in his inaugural address, said that India was progressing in all sectors and Indian engineers were in popular demand in developed nations too. Anita Ramdass, Deputy General Manager, BSNL, said that information and communication technology had revolutionised the lives of human beings. S. Deenadayalan, chairman, Institution of Engineers, welcomed the gathering. V. Dhanaraj, secretary, Institution of Engineers, Dr. Kathirvelu and M. K. S. Sreenivasan, chairman, Vickram College of Engineering, addressed the students. The technical sessions were chaired by K. Chakrapany, former Chief Engineer, Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board, and A. Durairaj. B. T. Bangera, Managing Director, Hi-Tech Arai, delivered the valedictory address. *** The Department of Information Technology of Latha Mathavan Engineering College conducted a personality development programme in which Nan. Narayanan, HR consultant, spoke on soft skills and personality development. Principal Marimuthu presided over the function. Vice-Principal Rajendra Sethupathy addressed the gathering. N. Chellapandi, Coordinator, welcomed the participants and the Head of the Department, L. Rasikannan, proposed a vote of thanks. Mr. Narayanan laid emphasis on body language, speech modulation, dressing etiquette, interview mannerism, ethics and morals. *** Compiled by S. Annamalai