Yeoman service:M. Ponnavaikko, Vice-Chancellor, Bharathidasan University honouring Krishnammal Jaganathan during the International Women's Day in Tiruchi on Monday. (from left) N. Manimekalai, Director and Head, Department of Women's Studies, K. Balabharathi, MLA, Sheela Rani Chaunkath and R.Lakshmi Pai are also seen    Staff Reporter TIRUCHI: The gradual realisation by men about the part they need to play for uplift of women came in for appreciation during the International Working Women's Day celebration organised by the Department of Women's Studies, Bharathidasan University, here on Monday. Achievers in public life, who were honoured by the Vice-Chancellor M. Ponnavaikko with awards during the celebration, however, felt the general notion of the society about the progress of women needs a course correction. The speakers for the occasion comprised Krishnammal Jagannathan, Gandhian and Secretary of the Land for Tillers Freedom (LAFTI); Sheela Rani Chunkath, Chairperson and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation; CPI (M) MLA K. Balabharathi; and the Project Director of TAI (Tamil Nadu AIDS Initiatives) R. Lakshmibai. With educated women making a foray into men's domains, the society was expecting a lot from the former who had to perform the role of home makers as well. On their part, women expected men who have no qualms in taking up activities like cooking on a commercial plane, to shed their hesitancy to extend their resourcefulness on the domestic front. The clash in expectations is what causes the discord. A family being an institution there must be equal participation by husband and wife, the TIIC Chairperson explained. Achievements and good health to withstand stressful situations go together, she observed. Ms. Sheela prevailed upon youths among the audience to take a pledge not to receive or give dowry on the occasion. In deference to a request made by Ms. Krishnammal, Ms. Sheela promised to provide cement bags worth one lakh rupees for the former's project to provide dependable shelter to the poor. Narrating the travails she underwent in her initiatives to empower women, Ms. Krishnammal was critical of the way in which women were projected. Though sustained efforts could ensure retrieval of several hundreds of women and Dalit families from the shackles of bondages, there was more to be done, the Padma Shri Awardee felt. Ms. Balabharathi focussed her talk on the meaninglessness of politics without service. The distressing situation into which the political situation has sunk was a cause for enormous concern, she said, calling for integration of service into politics for fostering achievements on very many spheres. “Treat transgenders as humans” Ms. Lakshmibai urged the public especially youths to treat marginalised women and transgenders as humans so as to enable their integration into mainstream society. These marginalised sections of the society need moral support, she emphasised. Prof. Ponnavaikko said empowerment of women was vital for transforming the population into human resource. The Director of the Department of Women's Studies N. Manimekalai said that the occasion signified the fight of women for equal rights. An endowment in the name of Veerammal, a social activist, was launched by Ms. Krishnammal. The student team from Aiman College of Arts and Science for Women lifted the overall shield of the two-day Gender Fest conducted as part of the International Working Women's Day. The Vice-Chancellor presented the shield to the team.