In the backdrop of the mental pressure that today's youth experience due to factors like peer influence, media impact and lack of personalised attention at home, the P.G. Department of Social Work, Jamal Mohamed College, organised a State-level seminar on 'Health Issues of youth in India: Problems and Prospects' on Monday, to impress upon them the need to imbibe life skills based on the framework of World Health Organisation. The department associated itself with the Red Ribbon Club to organise the event for the benefit of students and faculties of Social Work from colleges in and around Tiruchi, with sponsorship from the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS). Broadening its ambit of activity, the TANSACS has started dealing with the issue of tackling HIV/ AIDS comprehensively by attending to discrepancies in the mental health of present day youth in such a way that they would gain the decision making ability to classify their needs in a better way. Direct interaction with students of schools and colleges works better as a preventive strategy, according to the organisers. The purpose of the programme was to give positive strokes to youth to introspect and think rather than stopping with analysing the causes for the degradation in the thinking levels, according to P.Ilango, Head and Professor, Department of Social Work, Bharathidasan University. He urged the youth to use mobile phones and internet judiciously as tools for bettering life styles . K. Ramakrishnan, Director of ATHMA, Institute of Mental Health and Social Sciences, handled a session on psycho-social issues among youth. Dr. Ramakrishnan dwelt on the identity crisis of youths perpetuated by lacuna in parenting, distractions created by technology, the uncertain environment they find themselves in, urge for instant gratification and absence of role models. The solutions lie in securing life skills, he said. J.Godwin Prem Singh, Associate Professor of Social Work, Bishop Heber College, chaired a panel discussion on 'status of youth health in present scenario'. Representatives of TANSACS and Red Ribbon Club, and faculties of the Social Work department in the university and constituent colleges also addressed the participants. The Principal of Jamal Mohamed College M. Sheik Mohamed presided over both the inaugural and the valedictory sessions. J.A. Arul Chellakumar, Professor and Chair, School of Economics, Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University, delivered the valedictory address. A. Relton, Head and Associate Professor, Department of Social Work, Bishop Heber College, addressed the valedictory session as the chief guest.