INFORMATIVE:A view of the Red Ribbon Express behind students.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter MADURAI: A special train, Red Ribbon Express, which will create an awareness of HIV/AIDS will arrive in Madurai railway station on March 18. The eight-coach train will be stationed on platform No. 8 here for public viewing from 8.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. till March 19. Addressing reporters here on Saturday, Joint Director (Health), Panchanathan, said the express began its journey at New Delhi on December 1, 2009. Sponsored by the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, the train would go around 10 railway stations in Tamil Nadu with an objective of reducing the discriminatory practices in the society against those affected by HIV/AIDS and to bring in changes in lifestyle behaviours for protecting oneself from getting affected by HIV/AIDS, Dr. Panchanathan said. The first three coaches of the train will have updated information on AIDS, like how its spreads and how it does not. One coach has been dedicated for creating an awareness of other epidemics on chikungunya, swine flue, malaria where people would be able to clear all their doubts on these diseases, said district programme manager of HIV/AIDS, E.S. Thangapandiyan. During the two days, 12 conferences would be held in one of the coaches to educate people from various walks of life — police personnel, construction workers, self help group leaders, panchayat presidents, teacher training students, nursing students, medical professionals and lab technicians. An Integrated counselling and testing centre, with a doctor, counsellor and a lab technician, would function in one of the coaches, where people can clear all their doubts on HIV/AIDS and allay their unfounded fears about the syndrome. Free blood test would be conducted for the visitors there. Simultaneously, 10 teams of volunteers from Nehru Yuva Kendra would visit 24 villages in the district. They would create an awareness among the rural masses through street plays, songs and mimicry on HIV/AIDS.