The ‘tenofovir' vaginal gel for woman, a drug to control spread of HIV, would hit the markets in a few months while the ‘rilpivirine' injection is in advanced stages of tests in the US and is expected to reach the market in a couple of years, a local physician and Padma Sree awardee Kutikuppala Surya Rao said. The injection would be a boon to those not interested in taking an oral tablet or apply a gel or an ointment as one dose was enough every six months or a year, Dr. Surya Rao said while giving details about an international conference, M2010 Microbiocies, Building Bridges in HIV Prevention, held in Pittsburgh (US) recently, at a press conference here. Dr. Surya Rao also presented a paper at the conference. He said the conditions had changed a lot from 90s when an AIDS patient would die soon but now a patient could live 42 years more (from the time he or she contacted the disease) if he or she took the medicines. The concept worldwide on prevention of AIDS and HIV were based on policy of vaginal, oral interference control epidemic (VOICE) study, by taking a tablet or applying a gel and a mathematical model showed that by 2015, the world would be free of AIDS and HIV if one got treatment as soon as he or she contacted the disease. There are medicines to control the dreaded disease but the high cost was proving to be a burden for people in the Asian and African countries while 85 per cent of the AIDS and HIV patients were living their life full. Dr. Surya Rao also pointed out that many were not taking the full course of medicines and stopping medication as soon as they saw some improvement. Circumcision would help a lot in preventing the spread of AIDS and HIV, according to studies made in this area, he said. In South Africa the method reduced the risk of acquiring HIV or STD in 60 per cent of cases. In a study made by him locally, Dr. Surya Rao said 81 per cent of the 1,000 couples were ready to get their sons circumcised if the procedure was done in a safe manner in a hospital and free of charge or by collecting a nominal amount. Thirteen per cent said they would wait till a report was made on the success of the procedure and six per cent felt that the sexual pressure might drop. Dr. Surya Rao said treatment of HIV and AIDS must be brought under Arogya Sri scheme. The cost of treatment and medicines would cost around Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 only and poor people could not bear even this amount.