Taking its plan of action to the next level to wipe out stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS, the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), a non-governmental organisation working on the issue, has put in place an effective mechanism to help the ‘affected' population fight the malaise. Members of the multi-stakeholder forum that is made up of people's elected representatives, civil society groups, non-governmental organisations, government officials and media representatives from across the region met in the city to take stock of the developments spawning from the previous round of discussions held by the forum members. Reiterating their commitment for the cause, the committee members shared their experiences and initiatives being implemented by their respective groups in the post-first round talks. Utter neglect and discrimination directed at people living with HIV/AIDS, the ‘victims' being shunned by their families, peers and the wider community, denial of or inadequate treatment at hospitals, mockery of the infected and affected children in educational institutions causing irrevocable psychological disturbance have an adverse impact on the efforts to drive away the demon. “Stigma not only makes it more difficult for people trying to come to terms with HIV and manage their illness on a personal level, but it also interferes with attempts to fight the virus in general,” said Narender Ravelli of the CFAR. The session also served as a training ground for media representatives at state and division-level, who would now act as resource persons to enlighten their peers at the mandal-level on key issued related to HIV/AIDS. President of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) G. Samaram said though incidence of HIV/AIDS had come down drastically, much was needed to be done to remove misconceptions. Member of the city Bar Association Hazarataiah Gupta emphasised the need to protect the rights of the people living with HIV/AIDS and asked the media to play a constructive role in the anti-AIDS drive. How the virus was playing havoc with truck drivers was brought to the fore by Ch. Vazeer, chairman of the Krishna District Lorry Owners' Mutually Aided Cooperative Society. “Almost 20 per cent of the drivers employed by us are brought from States like Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa,” he said. Former Mayor Tadi Sakuntala mooted organisation of community lunches on a large scale to remove the stigma. Deputy Education Officer K. Durga Prasad said there was a need to take up awareness programmes for high school students to ward away the existing ‘AIDS phobia' among them. Muvvala Prasad, director of the Social Service Centre, Gunadala, listed out the various welfare programmes taken up by the centre for ‘positive' people. Project Director of the Women and Child Welfare Department, Krishna district, K. Suhasini Devi, said effective implementation of girl child education schemes would go a long way in curbing girl trafficking, a serious issue in the region. A sex worker-turned-peer-educator from Guntur explained how women of her ilk were fighting HIV/AIDS in their own right.