Educational programme:District Coordinator of Hospital Services L. Chennaiah and Government Hospital Blood Bank Medical Officer D. Krishna Murthy giving training to community paramedics through power-point presentation in Nellore on Monday.    Rajulapudi Srinivas NELLORE: Very soon, Registered Medical Practitioners (RMPs) and Private Medical Practitioners (PMPs) will provide services in rural areas in Sri Potti Sriramulu Nellore district in the name of ‘community paramedics'. With a view to providing better services to the poor in villages, the then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy had decided to give training to RMP and PMP doctors and utilise their services. The Para Medical Board has identified 1,070 qualified medical practitioners in Nellore district. The Health Management Research Institute (HMRI), along with 104 Services, has been imparting training to the selected doctors. Training The State government has arranged one-year training to the doctors in DSR Government Hospital and distributed material in three volumes to them. Speaking to The Hindu, District Coordinator of Hospital Services L. Chennaiah said training was being given to community paramedics batch-wise. After completing three-month theory classes, they will work in clinics, take training at primary health centres (PHCs) for four months and monitor the district education programmes like TB, AIDS, family planning, cataract surgeries and other programmes being sponsored by the government. Government Hospital Blood Bank Medical Officer and faculty D. Krishna Murthy said, a team of doctors, including hospital superintendent A. Penchalaiah, Muralidhar and staff nurse Lilly Grace were providing training to RMPs and PMPs on different types of treatment for various cases, usage of drugs and other topics through power point presentations. The first batch of medics completed theory classes. After successful completion of the training, certificates would be given to them as community paramedics and their services utilised in PHCs and other government programmes, Dr. Murthy said. “I have been working as RMP in Nellore city for 15 years and I treat fever cases. The demand for community paramedics is good in villages and the one-year training course will be very useful for us,” said P.Ramesh Kumar, an RMP. “ We used to treat burns cases, diarrhoea and other cases. In the training, we learnt a lot and we can treat more cases now,” said V. Sunitha, another RMP. “Earlier, we used to admit critical cases with fear. Now, we will treat the patients more confidently as we are certified medics,” said B. Malakondaiah, a PMP.