The importance of giving palliative care to those living with HIV/AIDS is something that even these patients are yet to fully comprehend. As in the case of any chronic disease, palliative care has an important role in the care and support of them. With even the National AIDS Control Organisation yet to come out with a clear policy or guidelines on this, Pallium India, a pioneer in the area of palliative care in the country, and Family Health International (FHI), an international non-governmental organisation working in the area of public health, are joining hands to develop an appropriate model of integrating palliative care with the government's HIV care programme. Kerala's unique model of community-oriented palliative care delivery system having caught worldwide attention, a 10-member team of FHI doctors and researchers had been in the State capital for several days in May, going on field visits with Pallium India health volunteers and holding consultations with experts here. “FHI is working in India closely with the Centre as well as the State governments on HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, TB and health systems strengthening. Though HIV care has expanded much, palliative care is quite ignored, at present. But it is very important as those infected with HIV can go on to live for many years, with the burden of several opportunistic infections, which worsens as the infection progresses,” Ashok Agarwal, a project directors of FHI, said. The role of palliative care starts right from the time HIV infection is diagnosed, when the person goes through intense psychological and social distress. Palliative care goes beyond the medical management of infectious, neurological or oncological complications of HIV/AIDS and managing the pain from side effects of drugs to addressing comprehensively the problems the patient faces through a continuum of HIV infection, Dr. Agarwal said. In most parts of the country, even the medical fraternity is yet to comprehend that palliative care is not just terminal care. Many doctors still have only a vague idea about palliative care and are not knowledgeable or trained to use morphine for pain management. “Pain is not taken into account in HIV care. It could be the side effects of anti-retroviral therapy or co-morbidities or it could be discomfort of diarrhoea, cough, shortness of breath, nausea, weakness, fatigue and confusion, some of the many symptoms of HIV. But even people living with HIV just suffer this silently, thinking that it is ‘normal,'” M.R. Rajagopal, chairman of Pallium India, said. “We will take up the task of advocacy so that a national policy on the palliative care component in HIV care and support can be evolved and made a part of our national programme,” Dr. Agarwal said.