HYDERABAD: The number of street and home-based sex workers was increasing considerably in several towns in the State, while the figure for those operating from brothels and lodges was coming down equally significantly, according to preliminary findings of mapping of high risk groups (HRGs). With the aim of scaling up targeted interventions, Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society (APSACS) has initiated the mapping of HRGs across 210 towns and entrusted the task to Catalysts Management Services (CMS). While the entire exercise would be completed by month-end, initial data from 140 towns in 14 districts was released at a press conference by APSACS project director, R.V. Chandravadan here on Tuesday. He said that based on the findings of mapping, APSACS would launch a new campaign from April 1 to bring about behavioural change among HRGs through mass media. It would focus on clients of sex workers, promote correct and consistent use of condoms and highlight the need for those with promiscuous tendencies to have less number of sexual partners. The findings revealed massage/ beauty parlour-based sex work in few towns, 65 per cent of the soliciting was taking place through mobile phones and the number of Female Sex Workers (FSWs) increased in most towns at the time of local festivals and industrial exhibitions. It was estimated that the total number of HRGs in the mapped towns was 71,853 and 77 per cent of them ( 55,830) were FSWs, followed by 16.2 per cent MSMs (men having sex with men-11,617), 3,112 transgenders ( 4.3 per cent) 940 ( 1.3 per cent) Injecting Drug Users and traditional risk groups (devadasi/jogin, dommara) 354 (0.6 per cent). Krishna accounted for the highest percentage ( 13.6 per cent), followed by Guntur ( 11.4 per cent) and East Godavari (10.4 per cent) among the 14 districts—nine coastal, three Rayalaseema and two Telangana. Andhra Pradesh ranked third in terms of HIV prevalence among adult population and has maximum number (5.2 lakhs) of people living with HIV (PLHIVs) in the country.