“Have you been watching the Commonwealth Games?” “Yes, I have. But I don't find the events as interesting as the games played by Kalmadi and his friends.” “That's true. Some of the interviews they gave were really hilarious.” “Yes, they were. But, unfortunately, the image of the country took a terrific beating.” “Took a beating? When you say someone took a beating, doesn't it mean that the individual was defeated?” “You are absolutely right! The expression ‘take a beating' has several different meanings. One of them, as you have pointed out, is ‘to be defeated'.” “For example, I can say, our team took a real beating in yesterday's game.” “Your team did get beaten quite badly. Now then, ...” “How can the image of a country be defeated?” “When you say that the image has taken a beating, you mean that its reputation has been damaged.” “A very different meaning, then! How about this example? The Minister's image as a clean politician has taken a severe beating.” “Politicians and corruption. They go together, don't they? I wish we had a magic bullet which would root out corruption in our country.” “Magic bullet? Are you going to go around shooting people?” “Of course, not! When you say you have a magic bullet, you mean you have the perfect solution to a problem.” “In other words, you have the solution to a problem that was once considered unsolvable?” “Exactly! That's why it's a ‘magic bullet'.” “Well, I'm afraid there is no magic bullet which can solve all our problems.” “According to doctors, there is no magic bullet against cancer or AIDS.” “Talking about doctors, did our doctor's son come to you for advice?” “Yes, Ajit came to see me yesterday. Every time I made a suggestion, he just threw it back in my face and....” “Threw it back in your face? What does it mean?” “It means that the person rejected your offer to help in a very unpleasant manner. The person turned you down very rudely.” “In other words, the individual behaved in an ungracious manner.” “I guess you could say that. Whenever my father tried to advise me when I was young, I used to throw it back in his face. I used to tell him that he didn't understand my problems at all.” “All teenagers do that. As far as they are concerned, their parents don't know a thing.” “Sad, but true.” “Are you going to talk to Ajit's mother about his attitude? It would....” “Definitely not! She has a tendency to overshare, and that makes me distinctly uncomfortable.” “Overshare? Is there such a word?” “Yes, there is. When you overshare, you give too much information about yourself. The information is rather personal, and very often embarrasses the listener or reader.” “I see.” “The first time I met my neighbour, he talked about the problems he was having with his wife. That in my opinion was a definite overshare.” “I agree.” ******  —  S. UPENDRAN upendrankye@gmail.com