A casual walk-in into any ‘standalone' blood bank, those which are not attached to a big hospital, in twin cities is all it takes to quickly realise how management of the blood banks try to cut costs at the expense of quality. Malfunctioning refrigerators, lack of cold chain management, broken air-conditioning and sign boards of ‘no stock' greets one and all. A simple test before collecting blood is never done at any of these stand alone blood banks. According to the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) guidelines, a haemoglobin level of greater that 12.5 g/dl (gram per decilitre) is the minimum criteria to donate blood. This is rarely checked before blood collection. A few blood banks that are diligent about their quality of the blood being stored and supplied send their samples to top laboratories in other cities to cross check their results. “This is only voluntary but it helps improve quality of service. Every blood bank should have a transfusion ethical committee for monthly review of their performance,” says Dr. K. Srinivasan, who has collaborated with Sunshine Hospitals to open a hi-tech blood bank on the hospital premises. “To improve blood safety, we are not permitting new standalone blood banks anymore. We conduct training programmes for blood bank medical officers, nurses and microbiologists. There is also a need for vigorous awareness drive to educate public about the common myths of blood and blood banks,” says Andhra Pradesh States AIDS Control Society (APSACS), Joint Director (Blood Safety), Dr. M. N. Kishore. Several doctors also suggest that operators of blood banks should, each year, undergo training classes in the lines of Continuing Medical Education (CME) and take a test on blood safety and ethics of blood transfusion, before their license of renewed. The drug inspectors of Drug Control Administration (DCA), district medical and health officer (DM&HO) and blood safety officials from APSACS regularly conduct inspections in blood banks. “Blood banks will not make quick money because of overhead costs involved and owners quickly realise it and lose interest in maintenance. Every blood bank will have defects but that does not mean they should be given closure orders. They are given time to rectify defects,” drug inspectors point out. Of the 53 blood banks in twin cities 22 of them have deficiencies related to infrastructure. Blood banks of Mediciti, Lions Club Hyderabad (South, East), Navjeevan Blood Bank, Malakpet and Satya Kidney Centre, Himayathnagar were asked to rectify defects. “We ask them to rectify defects and get back to us,” drug inspectors point out.