Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency (TEDA) and the Roever Engineering College, Perambalur, organised a rally in connection with the Rajiv Gandhi Energy Conservation Day. M. Vijayakumar, Perambalur Collector, flagged-off the rally in the presence of Palanisamy, District Revenue Officer, K. Varadharaajen, founder and chairman of Roever Group of Institutions and V. Mariappan, Principal, Roever Engineering College. The students of the college who participated in the rally, raised slogans underlining the importance of energy conservation and the vital role played by renewable energy sources in augmenting power production. A mobile exhibition van of the TEDA, which camped at the college campus, displayed solar heater, cooker, pump, lantern, wind mill etc to create awareness on renewable sources of energy. The van visited various schools in the neighbourhood. *** The investiture ceremony of the Leo Club of Mookambigai College of Engineering at Kalamavur in Pudukottai, was held for the current academic year. R. Murugesan, Lions vice-district governor, presided. He advised the members of the club to render service to the society. G. Rahuraman, final year mechanical engineering student took charge as president. M.G. Venugopalan and M. Sekar, Principal and Registrar respectively of the college were present. Classes for the first-year students were inaugurated at the college recently. Professor S. Sathyaseelan, former Principal, Urumu Dhanalakshmi College, Tiruchi, was the chief guest. He advised the students to think out of the box and broaden their horizons. A. Subramanian, Chief Executive, gave an overview of the Silver Jubilee celebration of the college. M.G. Venugopalan, Prinicpal, dwelled on campus placements and employment opportunities. He advised the students to develop their vocabulary and interview skills. S. Subramaniam, Chairman of the college, presided. *** The Department of Biochemistry of Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan College of Arts and Science for Women at Perambalur recently organised blood grouping camp for first-year undergraduate students. R.M.Meenakshi, advisor of the college, inaugurated programme. Blood samples were taken from more than one thousand students and were tested at the biochemistry laboratory of the college. A. Srinivasan, chairman of the college, presided. Anusha Bhaskar, Principal, S. Sasidhra, Vice-Principal and P. Murugasundari, Head, Department of Biochemistry, spoke. The Department of Commerce of the college organised a guest lecture programme. S.Joseph Xavier, Professor from St.Joseph's College, Tiruchi, was the resource person. He explained about company book keeping, royalty accounts, and other concepts. A. Srinivasan, Chairman of the college, presided. R. M. Meenakshi, Advisor, Anusha Baskar, Principal, R. Rasidhara, Vice-Principal and N. Piramela, Head, Department of Commerce presided. *** Students of Sudharsan Engineering College at Sathiyamangalam in Pudukottai won the first prize in the district-level inter-collegiate competition conducted by the AIDS Control Society of Tamil Nadu. V.K. Sundaram, Chairman, Ajay Sundaram, Vice-Chairman and Radhakrishnan, Principal, felicitated the winners. *** Two students – Balaji and Hari of M.N.S.K. Engineering College in Pudukottai won the second prize of Rs.25,000 in the quiz competition conducted by Dinamalar, a Tamil daily and Indra Ganesan Engineering College in Tiruchi. They were felicitated by Mylswamy Annadurai, Project Director of Chandrayaan at Bangalore. M. Nagarajan, Chairman of the college also honoured the students. *** The Department of Biotechnology of J.J. College of Arts and Science in Pudukottai, recently conducted a two-day national conference on ‘Biotechnological Approaches for Sustainable Environment.' S. Sridharan, controller of Examinations of Bharathidasan University, inaugurated the conference and released a souvenir.He said that deforestation, industrialisation and exploitation of natural resources were leading to serious environmental threats like global warming, climate change, melting of glaciers and rising of sea level, etc. He stressed the need for protecting our biodiversity resources. He also spoke about renewable energy resources and recycling of waste. Kavitha Subramanian, Management Trustee of J.J. Educational Institutions, presided. J. Parasuraman, Principal, C. Karthikeyan, Head, Department of Biotechnology spoke. *** A day long workshop on competitive examinations and employment opportunities was held at the Royal Polytechnic College, Kolathur in Pudukottai. Third-year students of electronics, computer science, civil, electricals courses participated. The workshop was inaugurated by V. Murugesan, Chairman of the college. A. B. Gurumoorthy, Placement Officer of the M. N. S. K. Engineering College, was the resource person. He spoke on target fixing, confidence building, time management, memory power, interview techniques etc. Sivanesan, Principal, presided. *** Classes for first-year students were inaugurated recently at the Al Aman Teacher Training Institute, Rajendrapuram near Aranthangi. N. Mohamed Farook, Correspondent of the college, presided. K. Ravuthar Naina Mohamed, Principal, Naina Mohamed College of Arts and Science, was the chief guest. In his address, Prof. Naina Mohamed explained the key role played by the teachers in producing good citizens. S. Anbumuthu, Principal of the college and Yusuf, former Head, Department of English, Jamal Mohamed College, Tiruchi, offered felicitations. *** Contributed by K. Subramanian and Syed Muthahar Saqaf in Tiruchi