PULSATING APPROACH: Kolkata Vijayaraghavan. PHOTO: R. SHIVAJI RAO    T he strong voice and use of nothing but akaras in alapanas explained the weighty expository method of Kolkata Vijayaraghavan in his concert for Sri Thyagaraja Seva Samithi. Restrained spontaneity would have helped better enjoyment. Good music emerges when soaring manodharma is tempered with a sense of equanimity -- in such a situation music gains graciousness. The lack of this was compensated by good Tyagaraja kirtanas in his Bahulapanchami recital. Interpretative aim in rendering songs was directed to creation of exhilaration particularly in the two items, ‘Merusamana' (Mayamalava Gowla) and ‘Ammaravamma' (Kalyani). The latter has inbuilt tempo and hence his presentation was excusable, but the former is framed in serenity which he failed to bring about. In alapanas of Kalyani and Karaharapriya, ‘Chakkani Raja Margamu,' Vijayaraghavan displayed pulsating approach away from usual hackneyed process. This aspect clearly pointed out his capabilities in the arrangement of sancharas to create an impression of vibrancy. Music has two dimensions – the sastra and the call of sensitivity. The first one is easy to achieve but the latter requires steadfast cultivation. Striking a balance between the two, speaks of a musician's progress towards maturity. Vijayaraghavan has the potentiality to move towards this objective. He revealed strong foundation both in raga development and rendering of songs, ‘Sri Raghu Kula' (Hamsadwani), ‘Maravairi' (Nasika Bhooshani) and ‘Chakkani Raja Margamu' (Karaharapriya). But he has to protect himself from the lure of vocal display. The violin accompanist was G. Bharati, daughter of M. Chandrasekharan. She has imbibed all the nuances of ragas in crispness, and accompanying experience should take her to a more purposeful level. The glowing touches she gave to the Kalyani and Kharaharapriya vinyasa in her solo session sprang from her lineage. Thiruvidaimarudur Radhakrishnan on the mridangam played with a sense of proportion needed to embellish kirtanas.