The NSS and YRC Units of Salem Rajaji Institute of Technology and TMS Eye Hospital, Salem, organised a free eye screening camp for the students.    Red Ribbon Club of Salem Vysya College received two awards from Collector J Chandrakumar at the World AIDS Day programme at Salem recently. Club In-charge T. Natesan, Santhosh Raja and M. Muralisankar received the awards. The college conducted blood camps and awareness programme on AIDS/HIV and hence received the Best Red Ribbon Club in Colleges. The students also launched a signature campaign and hence received Best Club in Colleges to spread maximum awareness award too. Correspondent Rajendra Prasad congratulated the students. Salem Vinayaka Mission's College of Pharmacy celebrated 49th Pharmacy Week on its premises recently in which Dr. S. Sriram, Head of Depaetment of Pharmacy Practice, Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Paramedical Sciences, Coimbatore was the chief guest. Salem Senior Drug Inspector P. Panneer Selvam delivered inaugural address in which he highlighted the importance of pharmacists and the need for their role in eradicating spurious drugs. Principal Dr. B. Jayakar presided over the function. The MBA Department of Paavai College of Engineering, Pachal in Namakkal district conducted a guest lecture on “Industrial Expectations” in which K.K. Ramasamy, Director Administration of Paavai Institutions presided. G. Senthilkumar, CEO, Helikx Institutions, Salem and Balaji, Director of Helikx participated. Senthilkumar told the students that MBAs had huge openings in Small and Medium Enterprises than the opportunities available at multinational companies situated in metros. Saying that a survey conducted among SMEs in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem and Erode, SMEs were looking for more MBAs because of their fresh ideas as well as to meet challenges and opportunities of globalization. S. Srinivasan, Placement and Training Director, V. Jayaraman, Director, Paavaai Group of Institutions, C. Jegadheesan, Principal, Paavai Engineering College, V. Murali Bhaskaran, Principal, Paavai College of Engineering participated. V. Siraj, First Year MBA student Paavai College of Engineering, welcomed the gathering. S. Dileepan Raj, First Year MBA Paavai College of Engineering, proposed a vote of thanks. A guest lecture on “Globally Focused Business Graduates” was also organised by the MBA department of Paavai Institutions, Pachal, recently. Chairman N.V. Natarajan presided over this function. K.P.M. Sait (Management Consultant) delivered the guest lecture. The faculty members and MBA students of Paavai Institutions also participated. The NSS and YRC Units of Salem Rajaji Institute of Technology and TMS Eye Hospital, Salem organised a free eye screening camp for students. M.V. Rengarajan, Chairman, presided over the programme. Rajaraman, Principal, Varadharajan, Secretary, Badrinathan, Vice-Principal, offered felicitations. The medical team headed by Dr. Sidharthan conducted the screening for about 400 students and their parents. In the camp, Vision Test, Cataract, Counselling, Contact Lens, Inter Ocular Lens, Lasic Surgery, etc were discussed. V. Ramakrishnan and R. Kala, Programme Officers, organised the programme. The Department of Training & Placement Cell of Annai Mathammal Sheela Engineering College, Namakkal, conducted a two-day pre-placement training recently. K. Selvavinayagam, Head of the Department welcomed. K. Palaniswamy, Principal presided. College Chairman T. Arangannal and M. Mani inaugurated the training programme. K. Babu, CEO, IWIS, Udhagamandalam was the chief guest. He gave a training on aptitude test. T. Saranya gave a training in communication skills, and K. Rajendran in interview techniques. S. Balaji spoke on Group Discussion. More than 240 students had participated. The faculty of Management Studies, Gnanamani Educational Institutions, Pachal, Namakkal organised a one-day special lecture on ‘AMFI Awareness programme' recently. K. Karthik, Branch Manager of Kotak Mahindra Mutual Funds Ltd-Salem, S. Kathiravan, Client Relationship officer of Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd-Namakkal and S. Ravindran, Corporate Account Manager of Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd, Coimbatore, addressed the students. P. Mala Leena, Chairperson, Gnanamani Educational Institutions lit the lamp. S. Asokkumar welcomed the gathering. T. Arangannal Chairman, Gnanamani Educational Institutions presided. Vivekanandan, Chief Executive Officer, Dr. P. Premkumar, Administrative Officer, V. Baskaran, Principal, Gnanamani College of Technology and D. Tensing, Principal, Gnanamani College of Engineering offered felicitations. The NCC Unit of Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai, in association with National Foundation for Communal Harmony, Ministry of Home Affairs, organised a Communal Harmony campaign and Flag Day fund raising programme recently. During the week-long campaign, the negative impacts of communal and ethnic clashes and the need for promotion of communal harmony were highlighted. NCC cadets also mobilised Rs. 8,000 as Flag Day fund and sent it to the foundation. The unit also conducted elocution and painting competitions for students on the theme of Communal Harmony and National Integration and prizes were distributed to the winners. College Correspondent R.K. Viswanathan, Principal S. Kuppuswami, Dean K. Krishnaswami and Commanding Officer of 15(TN) Battalion of NCC Colonel N.S. Shekhawat congratulated the students who participated in the campaign. The Department of MBA of SSM College of Engineering, Komarapalayam, conducted an Industry-Institute Interaction programme recently. Roots Industries Vice-President (IT) O.A. Balasubramaniam, participating in the programme, delivered a lecture on the expectations of industries. With tremendous changes happening in the technology, the expectations of the corporate houses from graduating students had also gone up, he said. He also spoke on the role of information technology in enhancing the productivity. Meanwhile, the HCL Technologies conducted a campus recruitment programme in the college on Friday. Over 300 students attended the selection process. College Chairman M.S. Mathivanan was present. The Post Graduate and Research Department of Food and Nutrition of Vellalar College for Women, Erode, and Community Foods and Nutrition Extension unit, Chennai conducted a five-day training programme recently. The programme was sponsored by the Ministry of Women and Child development. Child development project officers and senior supervisors from Erode, Tirupur and Namakkal districts participated. Various aspects of delivering nutrition related knowledge to the community, nutritional mapping, surveillance and growth monitoring were covered. College principal C. Susheela presided over the programme. Meanwhile P. Tamilselvi, a second year student in B.Com won third place in the State level Silambam championship held in Vilupuram district recently. College secretary S.D. Chandrasekar congratulated the student. The Faculty of Management of EBET Group of Institutions, Nathakadaiyur, organised an interactive session with Management consultant Sundar T. Raghavachari. Mr. Sundar, speaking on the topic of Marketing in Digital era, emphasized on the challenges faced by marketing professionals in reaching targeted audience in a more effective way. He also highlighted the impact of social networking sites and internet penetration on marketing and promotion. Later, Management Consultant Ajit Chakravarti interacted with the students on challenges faced by human resource professionals. Dean AGV Narayanan was present. Meanwhile, the Red Ribbon Club conducted an awareness programme on HIV/AIDS. Club District Manager R. Saravana Kumar, participating in the programme, spoke on the role of students in creating the awareness among people on HIV/AIDS. He urged the students to use their creative skills to spread the awareness. Over300 students and faculty members attended the programme. The KSR College of Engineering, Tiruchengode, and Sakthi Sugars Limited signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the benefit of the students of the EEE and ECE departments recently. College Principal N. Rengarajan and Senior President of the sugar mill P. Natarajan signed the MoU, in the presence of College Chairman K.S. Rangasamy. Faculty members and senior officials from the mill were also present on the occasion. R. Ilangovan in Salem and S. Ramesh in Erode