“T here are a lot of critics of the Commonwealth Games, so your next book's title should be ‘Commonwealth for a Billion Reasons',” jested chief guest Suresh Kalmadi, chairman of the organising committee of the Commonwealth Games, while formally launching Amit Dasgupta's book “India for a Billion Reasons” at Art Junction, The Lalit, in the Capital recently. The glittery evening commenced with the lighting of a lamp by Kalmadi, Dasgupta and Wisdom Treee's publisher Shobit Arya. “It's a great honour to release this wonderful book. It should be gifted to every foreigner coming to or interested in India. India is a very progressive country with a young population but an incredibly old culture,” Kalmadi said. “The target readers are Indians settled abroad. They are forgetting India and its culture. This book presents a spirit of the country. I believe India is a journey. There are a billion reasons to capture young India, acknowledging its modernity, heritage and culture. The cover page with a photo of a woman is striking, powerful, young, fresh and dynamic, capturing the title of the book without words. India is what we collectively make of her,” commented Amit Dasgupta. Arya said, “This is the first time that a coffee table book covers topics like literature, sports, economics and science and technology, which depict resurgent India in all its glory. For once, we have a book that goes beyond sadhus and snake charmers and depicts the modern yet rooted, chic yet traditional India. There is a huge demand from other countries. We are already working on translations. There is an increased demand for translation in Persian language.” The book will launch in stores in October. Being an expensive one, there will be a 50 per cent discount for students. The book is full of colourful and impulsive photographs that illustrate the beauty and enigma of India, capturing not only the success stories but also the failures of the country. A billion reasons to go through it? SHIVANI JAIN RIDHIMA SHUKLA