An awesome friend Young World can never disappear from my sweet memory. When I started reading YW a sudden change came over me and my loneliness vanished. It is a simple way for gathering the most useful information. A.V.S VAISHNAVI, Little Angels, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. Young World is a “tempting world”. I still remember, when I was 10 years old, I never read newspapers. But when I picked up a copy of the Young World I got very interested with all the puzzles and games. Soon it become a habit and I was eagerly waiting for the next week's edition. DHIVYA HARIDASS, Navalpattu Anna Nagar, Tiruchi. It has been more than 18 years since I became acquainted with the Young World. My father encouraged me to read this magazine when I was very young. I am 25 now and I still look forward to reading this journal which has matured well with technology and the changing lifestyle of the world. I collect interesting articles from the Young World and maintain a scrapbook. I love the Reliving the Magic column which has been appearing in recent weeks. MONITA SUTHERSON, 23, Dennison Street, Nagercoil, Kanyakumari District. YW is a great companion and teacher. I regularly read YW. I love reading it. The stories are amazing. The quiz gives a lot of information. The puzzles and Fun Track are superb. And lastly, HeyMath! is really interesting and useful. YW always keeps me happy and teaches many things. C.SAVITHA, XI, C.K.K MHSS, Gobichettipalayam. I have been reading YW for the past two months. I first read YW when my brother Rahul showed me a comic strip from YW. At that moment I got interested. I like the short stories and puzzles too. DEEPAK CHANDRA, V A, Vidyanjali High School, Doyens, Hyderabad. Let me start by pointing out the fact that my family is strongly grounded on the principles of nurturing good reading habits. But never once was it made obligatory for me to read the newspaper everyday. Needless to say, the first newspaper I picked up on my own accord was the Young World. It's been nearly 12 years now. And my range of interests in various genres has expanded at an quick pace but never once have I gone for the main paper without buzzing through the Young World first. Nobody grows up without reading the Young World. And if you haven't, I suggest you go right back and start growing up again. SWATHY R. IYER, XII, Bhavan's Vidya Mandir, Eroor Taking after my brother, the colourful pages were my introduction to the newspaper. Since it came on Saturdays then, it gave us something to spend our time on during the weekend. The Young World has contributed to improving my English and getting me interested in current affairs. That way, YW is the only teacher I had who was younger than me. I still read Young World, though only after reading The Hindu and mostly in the evening. Nowadays it is “Reliving the Magic” that is keeping me hooked. It was awesome to read that YW had predicted Sachin would play well into the 21st century, but in fact he has almost completed a decade after that landmark too. MIDHUN MANAMEL, Manamel House, Thattarath Lane, Palarivattom P.O. Kochi, Kerala During my childhood days, Young World used to come on Saturdays. I devoted my Saturday morning to reading all the articles and stories. In fact YW transformed my reading habit from simply glancing at cricket scorecards to several novels. YW created a platform for young minds to showcase their creativity in the form of poetry and drawing. It helped in exploring my creative skill at writing poems. Now, I preserve the Tuesday YW for reading it leisurely during the weekend. When I read YW, I feel my happiness gets doubled and my age gets halved. P.GAUTAM ARVIND, (Lead Engineer in Samsung India Software Operations) 107, Sri Lorven Castle, 5th Main 7th Cross, Malleshpalya, Bangalore, Karnataka I never used to read newspapers before I saw YW. I enjoyed reading it because that time I was not in nice mood. After reading it one time I started looking forward to it and now I am a fan. I love the main stories, the cartoons and Hey Math. TAVI RATHI, VII, Anne's School, Jodhpur, Rajasthan The first newspaper that I read was on Tuesday. Though my father suggested to me many a times that I read the newspaper, I was not interested. One day I was so bored, that I went through The Hindu. I did not find anything interesting in it, but in the middle there was a colourful, attractive paper which attracted me a lot. It was none other than Young World. I read it with great interest. My father was surprised to see me reading. From that time I spent my leisure with my favourite YW and every time I eagerly waited for the next edition of YW. L. SRAVANI, IX, Sri Chaitanya Techno School, Tanuku I started reading The Hindu when I was 16. The paper was referred to me by my English teacher Hanuman Singh from V.V. Inter College, Tochhigarh, Aligarh. Since then I have been enjoying Young World too. Most interesting part in YW is the quiz. VIJAY SINGH, Engineer, BHEL, Chandrapura, Bokaro, Jharkhand  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 1:48:37 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/YW20-Letters/article15679389.ece   © The Hindu 