rooting out: Transport Minister K.N. Nehru and Forest Minister N.Selvaraj handing over the cheque to a girl at the inaugural of Youth Carnival organised by the Tamil Nadu AIDS Control Society on Monday. — Photo: M.Moorthy    AIDS awareness has taken a new avatar in the shape of the ‘Ilavatam' Youth Carnival organised by the Tamil Nadu State Aids Control Society (TANSACS) intended to reach out to thousands of youth across the State. The youth carnival with an array of sporting and cultural events was inaugurated at the District-level here on Monday by K.N.Nehru, State Transport Minister. By celebrating the spirit of youth, TANSACS would mobilise them in large numbers to fight against AIDS by creating awareness on HIV-AIDS and its prevention. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nehru said, “AIDS victims should not be discriminated against. We should get rid of misconceptions and taboos associated with HIV-AIDS.” He added that many government schemes and programmes were available for HIV-AIDS victims and the youth must make good use of it. More than 50 children with HIV AIDS, donning colourful masks, received financial assistance worth Rs.1,43, 000 under the under Tamil Nadu Trust for Orphan and Vulnerable Children. N.Selvaraj, State Forest Minister advised abstinence as the best means to counter HIV AIDS. C.A. Raman, District Collector (in charge) presided over the event. M. Poongothai, joint director,Health Services said that more than one lakh youth across the state were expected to participate in the events. According to a release issued by the TANSACS, youth aged between 15 and 24 constitute 19 percent (12 million) of the total population in the State. According to recent statistics, 2.46 percent of these young men and 3.11 percent women are HIV positive. Cultural events including oratory, drawing, mimicry, street theatre, music and dance competitions would be held at the university-level while sporting events such as kabaddi, volleyball, basketball, football and hockey at the district-level would be conducted in collaboration with the District Sports Authority on August 3,4,5. Winners of the district-level competitions would compete in the finals in Chennai from August 10- 12, coinciding with International Youth Day celebrations.