S urya is driving to the outskirts of Chennai to shoot for the ambitious “7am Arivu”. “I'm enjoying every single day though it's gruelling too. I feel as if a beautiful dream is taking shape,” says the genial star. The release of “Rakthacharithram” has been pushed by another week. Now it'll hit theatres on December 3. “My schedule does not allow me to go to Mumbai to promote the Hindi version but I'll go to places like Coimbatore and Madurai for the Tamil version.” Surya is easily the most sought after actor in Tamil cinema with all the top directors wooing him. He's committed to do films with K.V. Anand and Hari, but in between there's an exciting offer that would send his fans into raptures. After the raw and hard-hitting “Rakthacharithram” his next screen appearance will be a fleeting one in Kamal's “Manmadha Andu”. Sadly, he doesn't share screen space with his idol. For Surya the toughest task today is saying no. He's short of time but given a choice would like to work in all the films offered. He laughs when I tell him he's caught in an emotional web. There's Telugu's hottest director Rajmouli who wants to do a straight Telugu film. Mani Ratnam wants him in his magnum opus possibly starring Kamal and Vikram too which as I had written is a modern take on the classic “Ponniyin Selvan”. Surya's favourite actor Kamal wants him in his next directorial venture “Thalaivan Irukkiran”. Then there's ‘Subramaniapuram' Sasi Kumar who's keen on signing him. Surya is obviously spoilt for choice. He wants to accept them all but will ultimately have to refuse a few. A reluctant and self-conscious actor when he started, today he's referred to as Kamal Haasan's successor! *** “Guzaarish”, in a nutshell is the death wish of a quadriplegic. It's a typical Sanjay Leela Bhansali film, full of opulent visuals but emotionally vapid. It's a strange film. Most of the characters are attired in costumes straight out of a ‘50s Hollywood musical. Everything looks synthetic from the dilapidated mansion to the acting and the dialogue delivery. The fairly talented Hritik looks ill at ease. He's probably been instructed that the smile should never reach his eyes so every time he laughs it looks like a bone is stuck in his throat. I neither laughed nor did the seemingly most emotional of scenes evoke a lump in my throat. Every shot is painstakingly designed and exquisitely shot but the same cannot be said about the emotional content. Form can never compensate for lack of content. Shernaz Patel walks away with the acting honours. She obviously did not heed the director's instructions. Aishwarya Rai again looks and dances like a dream. Like most of his films “Guzaarish” too is inspired by various films but is not a patch on any of them. S. SHIVAKUMAR