Improving lives: C. Rajendran, Vellore Collector, inaugurating a Youth Carnival on HIV/AIDS awareness organised by Thiruvalluvar University at DKM College for Women in Vellore . — Photo: D.Gopalakrishnan    Vice-Chancellor of Thiruvalluvar University A. Jothi Murugan has called upon college students, who are members of Red Ribbon Clubs (RRCs), to function as peer educators and agents of change to create awareness of HIV/AIDS in society. He was presiding over the inaugural function of a Youth Carnival organised by the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) and the RRC of Thiruvalluvar University, Vellore, at Dhanabagyam Krishnaswamy Mudaliar (DKM) College for Women here on Tuesday. Mr. Murugan said that despite the scientific developments that have taken place the world over, AIDS continues to remain without a cure. “Behind all the revelry that goes with the cultural programmes held under the banner of the youth carnival lies the need to create awareness of prevention of HIV/AIDS,” he said. Acknowledging the financial allotment made by TANSACS to the RRCs every year to enable them to undertake HIV awareness activities, he said that the RRC encourages students to get involved in social affairs. “The RRC prepares the students to function as vehicles to carry HIV/AIDS awareness to the community at large,” Mr. Murugan said. There were 1,005 RRCs with a total membership of 57,000 students in Tamil Nadu. The RRC started functioning in Thiruvalluvar University from the very first year of the inauguration of RRCs - 2005. RRCs were functioning in 65 out of 85 colleges in the Thiruvalluvar University area comprising the districts of Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Cuddalore, and 6,500 students were members of the clubs. RRCs would be started in the remaining 20 colleges during the current academic year, Mr. Murugan said. As per 2008 survey, two-thirds of 34 million AIDS-afflicted people in the world were in Africa, followed by Asia, which had 4.7 million AIDS-afflicted people. Of this 4.7 million, India accounted for 2.31 million people. Tamil Nadu was the first State in India to start an AIDS Control Society. The State government had introduced anti-retroviral therapy (ART) for AIDS control, and around 1.40 lakh AIDS-afflicted people in the State were taking this medicine. Mr. Murugan said that the university-level Youth Carnival was being held to select students to represent Thiruvalluvar University in a State-level Youth Carnival to be held in Nehru Stadium, Chennai, on August 12. C. Rajendran, Collector of Vellore, inaugurated the carnival. He urged college students to exercise self-restraint to keep HIV at bay. “Self-control is very essential to lead a really happy life”. In Vellore district, 2.9 per cent of men and 3 per cent of women had AIDS. This affected the entire society. So the students should take steps to prevent spread of HIV, he said. D. Maninathan, secretary, DKM College for Women, requested Mr. Rajendran and Mr. Murugan to prevail upon the government to ban the use of cell phones in colleges as it distracted students from studies. K.S.T. Suresh, Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS), Vellore, said that lorry and truck drivers and cleaners who stay away from home for long periods get infected by HIV. He urged people to make use of Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres functioning in the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital, Government Taluk Headquarters Hospitals and primary health centres in Vellore district for HIV/AIDS testing and counselling. K. Revathi, Principal, DKM College for Women, spoke. K. Sivachandrabose, project coordinator, RRC, Thiruvalluvar University, welcomed the gathering. S. Mythili, adviser, National Service Scheme, DKM College for Women, compered the proceedings. S. Adhisayaruban, District Manager, RRC, Vellore, district proposed a vote of thanks.