HONOUR: G. Natchiar (middle), Vice-Chairman, Aravind Eye Care System, being conferred the ' Woman of the Year Award ' by Soroptimist International, Madurai. — Photo: S. James.    : Soroptimist International (SI) Madurai Chapter was granted the charter status by its National Association here at a glittering function in the city on Tuesday and has now entered the league of 15 other SI clubs in the country to be chartered. SI is a Non Governmental Organisation with consultative status in the Economic and Social Committee of the United Nations. Annette Mascarenhas, Extension and membership Officer, National Association of India of Soroptimist International, Mumbai, granted the charter to Anitha Rajarajan, president, Madurai SI, and Naina Shah, president, SI, Downtown, Chennai, administered the SI pledge. Ms. Mascarenhas said that SI, Madurai, had been in the midst of creating social change in the form of their interventions largely on the environment and health aspects. Say NO to plastics campaign, Breast Cancer awareness campaign and distribution of educational aids to schoolchildren in orphanages were being organised on a regular basis. Ms. Anitha Rajarajan said that the club is also contemplating providing training in self-employment to HIV positive women and ensure that they support themselves. It was an occasion of double delight for the SI, Madurai, as the day also turned out to be a day to honour one of the city's most inspirational figures, G. Natchiar, Vice-Chairman, Aravind Eye Care System, was conferred upon the ‘Woman of the Year Award' for her meritorious service in the field of health care. Ms. Natchiar was awarded a plaque and a citation by the members and she said that uplift of the women was very important for the overall growth of the society and also opined that women were born entrepreneurs and each one had to cull out those hidden skills inside them to come up in life. SI Club is a small group of women professionals who are committed to the cause of being a catalyst keen on bringing about a change in the lives of the neglected and the downtrodden women and children in the society. This international service organisation had its inception in 1921 in Oakland, after Rotary Club failed to include women, and was started by 80 women. The organisation now consists of over one lakh members across 120 countries and work for the uplift of women. Madurai chapter has women from different fields of profession from Dindigul Madurai, Sivakasi and Rajapalayam. Harsha Vardhini, secretary, Nandini Murali, chairperson, programme action committee, and other members of the club were present.