The District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DPCU) and Spandana Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) in association with students of Red Ribbon Clubs and educational institutions have launched a massive signature campaign to create awareness among the youth on HIV/AIDS and related issues. The objective of the campaign is to fight the social stigma attached to people living with AIDS. Zilla Panchayat president Ashwini Patil inaugurated the campaign in presence of officials in the district administration and zilla panchayat recently and pledged not to stigmatise or discriminate PLHA and even strive to see that no stigma and discrimination is perpetrated against PLHA by the other members of society. She called upon the people to stop discrimination against HIV positive people at schools, hospitals and workplaces, and appealed to treat them as normal individuals. It was also of importance that all those associations of PLHA and other NGOs got sufficient support in addressing the issues related to HIV/AIDS. All individuals, even people living with HIV/AIDS have equal rights to live a respectful life. Therefore, stigmatising them was neither fair nor just, she added. nSince the campaign began activists have taken over 4,000 signatures from the general public. Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat Govindaraj said that people with HIV should face the world with courage and use the services made available by the Government to get the necessary treatment on time so that they can lead normal lives. He underlined the need for society to extend moral support to the people with HIV/AIDS. He also appreciated the active support and activities of students of Red Ribbon Clubs and Rani Chennamma M.S.W. College and B.S.W. Seva Mitra College. Red Ribbon Clubs are the student associations formed in different colleges with the help of NGOs and DAPCU to create awareness among the youth on HIV and related issues. Kasturi, Secretary of Spandana Network of PLHA said that people with HIV could lead normal lives if there rights were protected by the Government and society. ‘Stigma' has been a major cause of death rather than the disease in a majority of the cases. However, on its part, Spandana has been conducting support group meetings and runs a project to help affected and infected people besides providing peer counselling among its many other activities.