Union Minister of State for Human Resource Development Daggubati Purandeswari (extreme left), VMM president Chennupati Vidya (centre) and SAARC Chairperson V. L. Indira Dutt (extreme right) participating in the 40th anniversary of Vasavya Mahila Mandali in Vijayawada on Wednesday. — PHOTO: CH. VIJAYA BHASKAR    Union Minister of State for Human Resources Development D. Purandeswari on Wednesday said empowerment of women in its true sense was possible through bringing about a positive change in the mindset of men. Delivering a key-note address on ‘role of women in promoting pro-active humanism and professionalism' at a meeting organised in connection with the 40th anniversary of the city-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), Vasavya Mahila Mandali, the Minister said the string of welfare schemes launched by the government for the uplift of women notwithstanding, a large population of the fairer sex continued to remain outside the ambit of their benefits. “NGOs must play an active role in taking the benefits of the government programmes to the grass-root level,” she suggested. Drawing a contrasting picture of the ‘shining' India and ‘whining' Bharat, she tried to portray the rich-poor divide that paralysed the development process at its root. “We take pride in the rapid advancement of science and technology in the urban sector on the one side and on the other we have serious concerns over the issues of poverty and illiteracy glaring in our face on the rural front,” she said. The Minister suggested that NGOs could turn into an effective machinery to take the fruits of development to the needy at the lowest strata of society. Referring to the many welfare initiatives aimed at development of women, she said self-help groups in the rural sector were the finest example of women empowerment. The Domestic Violence Act was yet another powerful tool given to women to fight injustice against them on the domestic front. The Minister expressed serious concern over the ‘dismal' educational scenario. “The literacy rate of a country determines the development proportion of that nation. We still have a major chunk of children outside schools. I was informed here that Krishna district alone has over 3,000 HIV-affected kids. It is essential to provide educational facility to these children to prevent them from turning into anti-social elements,” she cautioned. Lauding the role of NGOs in the development process, which, she maintained, was ‘indisputable', she said voluntary organisations were ‘extension' of the government. The Minister was then draped in a Kalamkari shawl made by orphan children covered under welfare schemes of the VMM. Ms. Purandeswari also released a souvenir ‘Vasavya – The Service That Speaks' brought out on the occasion by the VMM. Earlier, she was taken around a photo exhibition christened ‘Vasavya – Path of Progress' that depicted the evolution of the organisation during its 40-year-long journey. V.L. Indira Dutt, joint managing director of KCP Ltd. and chairperson, SAARC Chamber, Women Entrepreneur Council, graced the occasion.