A science exhibition, 'GNAN EXPO 2k10,’ held at Gnanamani Educational Institutions, Pachal.    Rajaji Institute of Technology, Salem, organised an awareness programme on HIV/AIDS, sponsored by UNICEF and the district Health Department, for students. College chairman M.V. Rengarajan inaugurated the programme. Principal Rajaraman welcomed the gathering. Secretary Varadharajan offered felicitations. Vice-principal Badrinathan proposed a vote of thanks. Dr. Eswaran, Medical Officer of Nainampatty Primary Health Centre, spoke on anaemia, its causes, prevention and treatment. Gopal, ICTC counsellor, explained the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS. V. Ramakrishnan, Programme Officer handled a session on Leadership Development and Life Skills. A science exhibition, ‘GNAN EXPO 2k10,' was held at Gnanamani Educational Institutions, Pachal. Janagaraj of Physics Department welcomed the gathering. Chairperson P. Malaleena and chairman T. Arangannal presided over the function. Arangannal said that the exhibition would be helpful for young scientists to develop their creativity. Chief Executive Officer K. Vivekanandan, administrative officer P. Prem Kumar and principals of both the engineering colleges V. Baskaran and D. Tensing gave away the prizes. Nearly 3750 students from nearby schools and polytechnic colleges visited the exhibition. A total of 109 exhibits were displayed. Among the school exhibits Little Angel School, Namakkal, won the first place, Palayapalayam Government Higher Secondary School won the second place and third prize went to Vennandur Government Higher Secondary School. Among the Polytechnic exhibits, Computer Science and Engineering and Information Technology group of CSI Polytechnic College won the first prize followed by Salem Thiyagarajar Polytechnic College and Sri Venkateswara Polytechnic College. For Mechanical and Civil Group Muthayammal Polytechnic College won the first and the third prizes. Salem CSI Polytechnic College won the second place. For Electrical and Electronics Engineering and Electronics and Communication Engineering group Muthayammal Polytechnic College won the first prize, second Prize went to CSI Polytechnic College and third prize to Salem Kongu Polytechnic College. Over all best project award of Rs.10, 000 was given to the project on Automatic Inspection in Mass Production from Muthayammal Polytechnic College. A special award was given to Vennandur Government Higher Secondary School and CSI Polytechnic College for more number of participation. Honibald, Department of Mathematics, proposed a vote of thanks. Earlier, M. S. Palanichamy, vice-chairman, Tamil Nadu State Councillor Technical Education, Chennai, inaugurated the event. The Department of Mathematics, Sona College of Technology, Salem, organised a seminar on ‘Mathematical Sciences – a key to Engineering and Technology' recently. Principal P. Govindarajan, presided over the function. He explained the application of mathematics in various disciplines of engineering and technology. One should have enough mathematical knowledge to become a competent engineer and technologist, he added. Inaugurating the seminar, S. Sundar, IIT, Chennai, spoke about the application of mathematics in various areas of industry and technology fields like medicine, electronics, optimisation and control, simulated reality, multi-scale models and algorithms, risk and decision, textile, data, texts and images. P. Ganesan, Anna University, Chennai, R. Rangarajan, Mysore University, V. K. Nelson, Government College of Engineering, Salem, V.S. Venkatavaradan and S. Karthikeyan, Sona College of Technology spoke. More than 70 Participants from various states presented papers. Paavai Institutions, Pachal, conducted a training programme for first year MBA students. ‘Taalk shop' faculty members, Chennai, conducted the same. Mangai Natarajan, Correspondent of Paavai Institutions, lit the lamp. N.V.Natarajan, chairman of Paavai Institutions, presided over the function. He expressed his wish to usher in a complete transformation among the MBA graduates by giving training programmes. “Training moulds every individual and guides them in career development.” R. Rajapriya, final Year MBA, Paavai College of Engineering, welcomed the gathering. The resource persons Viswanathian, Seema, Sumaiya and Vinay took part.