A total of 1700 persons from Ussoor and surrounding villages near Vellore were screened and treated at the Vellore Parliamentary Constituency ‘Sugadhara Thiruvizha' (Health Mela) conducted at the Government Girls High School in Ussoor on Thursday. Ultra sound scan, blood test with the help of a semi-auto analyser, urine albumin sugar test and blood pressure check were conducted for the visitors. Counselling and testing for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) was done at the Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre set up as part of the mela. Charts explaining the methods of avoiding HIV, prevention of other diseases, and the services done at the Primary Health Centres (PHCs), especially Caesarean surgeries, were displayed. Inaugurating the mela, M. Abdul Rahman, Vellore MP said that Tamil Nadu is the first State in the whole country in the implementation of health programmes. C. Rajendran, Collector of Vellore said the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (DPHPM) and the district administration planned to conduct 124 camps under the Varumun Kappom Thittam in the Vellore Health Unit District (HUD) in 2010-11. Of this, 22 camps have so far been conducted. A total of 27,500 persons were benefited by the camps. The Collector said that Caesarean deliveries were being conducted in three PHCs in Vellore HUD. Caesarean delivery facilities would be established in PHCs in Pallikonda and Thimiri. Blood storage centres were available in the PHCs in Lalapet, Anaicut and Banavaram. The blood stored in these centres was used for anaemia patients, he said. Mr. Rajendran called upon men to come forward to undergo sterilisation surgery. Sheela Rajan, Chairperson of the Vellore District Panchayat said that previously, women used to go to private hospitals for Caesarean surgery. But now they were going to PHCs and government hospitals for the surgery. K.S.T. Suresh, Deputy Director of Health Services, Vellore said a sum of Rs. 8 lakh was allotted under the Vellore MP's Health Mela Fund for the conduct of three health melas in Vellore parliamentary constituency in 2010-11. This is the second camp in Vellore constituency. He said 2 ultra sound scans (for obstetric purposes) at a cost of Rs.2.75 lakh have been provided under the Health Mela Fund in the PHCs in Alamelu Mangapuram and Navlock. He requested the Vellore MP to grant Rs.10 lakh under the MP's Fund for the construction of an additional building in the PHC in Alamelu Mangapuram. Madhuri, Block Medical Officer, PHC, Ussoor proposed a vote of thanks.