SEEKING JUSTICE:Congress members burning an effigy of the former Minister Hartalu Halappa during a protest in Hubli on Monday.    Staff Correspondent HUBLI: Various organisations and parties, including the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, the AIDSO, the AIDYO, the Akhil Bharat Mahila Samskrutika Sangatane (AIMSS) and the Congress, staged demonstrations in Hubli-Dharwad on Monday demanding punishment to former Minister Hartalu Halappa who is facing an allegation of sexual misconduct. Members of AIMSS along with members of All India Democratic Youth Organisation and All India Democratic Students Organisation staged a demonstration at Vivekananda Circle condemning what they termed as a heinous act by a person in a responsible position. They demanded steps to ensure that justice was delivered to the victim by subjecting the perpetrator of the crime to punishment. District Convenor of AIMSS Prabhavati Googal said that in his attempts to remain in chair, the Chief Minister had gone to the extent of giving Cabinet portfolio to ineligible persons. Society should raise its voice against such people ruling them and launch a campaign to ensure that the guilty was punished, she said. AIDSO district unit president Gangadhar Badiger said persons such as Mr. Halappa were a blot on society. “It is condemnable that instead of denouncing the alleged act, the Chief Minister was trying to protect Mr. Halappa,” he said. AIDYO district unit president Lakshman Jadagannavar, Ramesh Hosmani and Sharanabasava led the protest. Dharna Members of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike staged a dharna in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and demanded the dismissal of the BJP Government and punishment to Mr. Halappa for his alleged sexual misconduct. The allegation that the former Minister had threatened the victim's family against filing a complaint showed to what extent Ministers in the BJP Government could go, they said. District unit president of the vedike Ramesh Badnur, who led the protest, demanded that the Governor dismiss the Government which, he said, had failed to protect women. The vedike then submitted a memorandum addressed to the Governor. Congress protest Two protests were staged by Congress members in Hubli on Monday. Former Minister Jabbarkhan Honnalli and Nagaraj Gouri wore black badges condemning the alleged act of the former Minister and staged a demonstration in front of Gandhi statue near KIMS Hospital. In the other protest by Congress members at Old Hubli, an effigy Mr. Halappa was burnt by protestors who demanded punishment to the former Minister. Party leaders Mahendra Singhi, Anwar Mudhol and Rajashekhar Menasinkai led the protest.