For the first time, a separate condom is being produced for MSM (men who have sex with men). The Hindustan Latex Family Planning Promotion Trust in association with the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO) is manufacturing the condom to check the HIV AIDS infection in the MSM community. NACO has approved a pilot programme for social marketing of the condom which is in advanced stage of preparation. It is expected to be marketed in November in five districts in Andhra Pradesh and two in Maharastra. Hyderabad, Krishna, Nellore, Prakasam and Kurnool districts in Andhra Pradesh and Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra are chosen for launch of the product. Named ‘spice up', the condom will have extra lubrication suitable for anal sex. The A.P. State Aids Control Society (APSACS) will facilitate marketing of the condom. It will be piloted initially among members of MSM through their community based organisations and NGOs working for them. The APSACS recently held an orientation programme for MSMs and the project directors in this connection. Andhra Pradesh is selected for implementation of the programme as it has a HIV infection rate of 23 per cent among MSMs whereas it is just 11 per cent in the sex workers. This is much higher than the national average of 7.3 per cent. The HIV prevalence rate was 17 per cent in 2007-08 indicating the gradual rise in the numbers. Out of every five MSMs, one is a positive. A recent mapping of high risk groups showed that there are 22,000 MSMs in 210 towns. “But it could be close to a lakh if the entire State is taken into account,” says APSACS project director R.V. Chandravadan, who has taken the initiative to launch the programme. To begin with, 3 lakh condoms will be marketed in the five districts. “The idea is to provide high quality condoms to high risk groups,” Mr. Chandravadan said. A study showed that the use of condoms is very low in MSM population as compared to other high risk groups. This is not due to low awareness levels but non availability of condoms with extra lubrication, it is said. The new brand will now be developed as ‘spice up' with an image that is not heterosexual. NGOs would be roped in to market the product through their peer based network.