An interactive session underway at the seminar organised by Angel College of Engineering and Technology, Tirupur, to promote the computer science technology concepts.    Tamil Nadu AIDS Control Society, Red Ribbon Club and Post-Graduate Department of Social Work of Sri Krishna Arts and Science College jointly organised an awareness programme on drug abuse. Representatives from these institutions impressed upon the people the ill-effects of narcotic drugs, smoking, and alcohol consumption at various prominent points in the city. The Youth Red Cross was launched at Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science. Kumutha Palanisamy, vice-president, Indian Red Cross, inaugurated the event and highlighted the salient features of the organisation. The NSS units of Sree Narayana Guru College in association with the Primary Health Centre of Thirumalayampalayam observed the World Breast Feeding Week by conducting an awareness programme for women. Senior Medical Officer Alagu Rajalakshmi spoke on the importance and need for breast feeding. As many as 75 pregnant and lactating mothers attended the programme. The activities of the Department of Instrumentation and Control Systems Engineering of PSG College of Technology were inaugurated recently. Anand Kustagi, Branch Manager, Rockwell Automation India Private Limited, was the chief guest. He spoke on the importance of automation and the scope of instrumentation. The NSS units of Karpagam College of Engineering in association with Blood Bank of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital organised a blood donation camp on the college premises. Over a 100 students donated blood. S. Sridevi, Blood Bank Medical Officer, CMCH, explained the need for donating blood. The Department of Social Work of Bharathiar University inaugurated the “SWIFT – Social Work Initiative for Transformation” Forum. M.N.G. Mani, president, UDIS forum, spoke on the scope and ideals of social workers in the national and international arenas. Office-bearers of the initiative took charge and the plan of action for the academic year was delivered. The Department of Information Technology and Computer Science, and Engineering of PPG Institute of Technology organised the inauguration of the Department Associations recently. R. Ravichandran, Director and Secretary of KGiSL Educational Institutions, inaugurated the associations. He stressed the importance of acquiring domain knowledge and said that the opportunities in IT had increased after the end of the recession. The Department of Textiles and Clothing of Avinashilingam Deemed University for Women conducted a lecture on “Role of Hi-Tech Textiles in Enhancing the Quality of Life”. Subbiyan Rajendran, senior scientist, The University of Bolton, U.K., delivered the lecture. He said the growth of global medical textiles was expected to increase to nearly 80 per cent by the end of 2010. He also added that the future market for technical textiles depended on the development of new materials, new processes and new applications. Guruvayurappan Institute of Management organised a workshop on “Self Empowerment” for MBA students. Soft skills trainer T.S. Krishnamurthi conducted the workshop. Skills for enhancing memory skills and identifying strengths and spotting weaknesses formed part of the programme. The Placement and Training Department of V.L.B. Janakiammal College of Arts and Science organised a visit of students to Anbu Illam at Ukkadam as part of their social welfare activities. Students spent time with the inmates and distributed sweets to them. The inauguration of the first-year engineering programme of PA College of Engineering and Technology was held recently. Vice-Chancellor of Anna University of Technology K. Karunakaran inaugurated the programme and urged the students to develop technical knowledge for intellect to grow. P. Appukutty, Chairman of PA Group of Institutions, addressed the students. The NSS units of Coimbatore Institute of Technology organised an orientation programme for the first year students. B. Loganayaki, NSS State Co-ordinator, Coimbatore Region, spoke to the students on the NSS activities in colleges and outside colleges. She highlighted the importance of special camps that were held for longer periods of time in villages. The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering of Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology organised the inauguration of the association. S. Bastin Xavier Raj, Principal Signal and Telecommunication Training School, Southern Railway, Podanur, was the chief guest. He spoke on the recent developments in the railway telecommunication systems. Sankara Institute of Management Science organised an induction programme for the first year MBA students. K. Ramakrishnan, vice-president, Virtuosity Skill Development Pvt. Ltd, Chennai, was the chief guest. He underlined the importance of acquiring analytical skills by reading newspapers and magazines. He also explained the various products of virtuosity skill development and how it would be beneficial to students. The Department of Biochemistry of RVS College of Arts and Science organised a lecture on Clinical Research and its Applications. Nagalakshmi Anandapadmanabhan, Chief Executive Officer, Consortium Clinical Research Private Limited, explained the human aspects of ethics of clinical research. She spoke on commitment, patience, empathy, informed consent, etc., as important aspects to succeed in clinical research. She also stressed the need for proper communication between doctor and patient. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering of Ranganathan Engineering College inaugurated its association activities. P.S. Balamurugan, Head of Department, Computer Science and Engineering, Karpagam University, was the chief guest. The new office-bearers of the association took charge. Coimbatore Institute of Engineering and Technology conducted a recruitment drive for the final year B.E., B.Tech., and MCA students. Excelacom Technologies had come to recruit for their human resource needs. As many as 130 students participated. There were four rounds – aptitude test, group discussion, technical interview and HR interview. At the end of the four rounds, 10 students got selected to join the company on completion of the course. The Fashion Technology Association of Kumaraguru College of Technology was inaugurated recently. R. Rajkumar, Executive Director, Textile Division of Sakthi Group, inaugurated the association and spoke on the Government's involvement in fashion technology. The Ministry of Textiles was giving more emphasis on fashion technology. It had allotted Rs. 100 crore for skill development in the textile industry. Foreign exchange earned was high in the field. Nehru Arts and Science College in collaboration with Raja Steels conducted a legal awareness programme on anti-ragging laws to students. Experts from the judiciary, Raja Steels, Panchayat, etc., were the resource persons. They impressed upon the students that ragging was though to create an emotional bonding and deepen friendship between students. But, while it would be humour for one, it would turn out to be nuisance for the other. He suggested websites that would help students stay away from ragging – www.noragging.com. and help@noragging.com. Anna University of Technology, Coimbatore, Vice-Chancellor K. Karunakaran inaugurated the first year engineering courses at the engineering college run by Erode Builder Educational Trust's Group of Institutions at Kangayam in Tirupur district, for the current academic year. Mr. Karunakaran advised the freshers not just to concentrate on their text books but also to utilise the campus life to mould their overall personality. “The students should copy the life of greats like Mahatma Gandhi and Mother Teresa,” he said. Trustee of the institution and faculty were present. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Angel College of Engineering and Technology, Tirupur, conducted a special interactive session on ‘Object Oriented Programming Concepts' on its premises recently. Anand Viswanathan, head of Information Technology department at V. S. B. Engineering College, Karur, in his keynote address, spoke on the topics in computer engineering like real time applications and constructor concept. Practical sessions were also conducted to explain various theories. (Amutha Kannan in Coimbatore & R. Vimal Kumar in Tirupur)