Preventive measure: (Clockwise from top left) An exhibition to create awareness of AIDS organised by Karpaga Vinayaga College of Nursing and J. J. Institute of Nursing, Pudukottai; Col. Thomas, Recruiting Officer, Tiruchi, addressing the students of JJ College of Arts and Science, Pudukottai; lamp lighting ceremony at Karpaga Vinayaga College of Nursing, Pudukottai; Tiruchi Mayor S. Sujatha flagging off an environmental awareness rally; K. Raghunathan, Secretary, National College, giving away a book to a student; Collector C. Munianathan administering an oath on the occasion of World AIDS Day at E.G.S. Pillay College of Engineering and Technology, Nagapattinam. — Photo: B. Velankanni Raj    The World AIDS Day was observed at the E.G.S. Pillay College of Engineering and Technology, Nagapattinam. Collector C. Munianathan administered the oath in the presence of Ramabalan, Principal. Persons who spoke on the occasion explained the serious consequences of the dreaded disease AIDS. *** Karpaga Vinayaga College of Nursing and J. J. Institute of Nursing, Pudukottai, organised an awareness exhibition on AIDS. The exhibition was declared open by N. Subramanian, Secretary, and Kavitha Subramania, Trustee, Karpaga Vinayaga Educational Trust. S. Sumithra, Principal, J. Parasuraman, Principal, J. J. College of Arts and Science, and a large number of students visited the exhibition. The students had displayed posters and models on the theme ‘universal access and human rights.' Teachers and students of the J. J. Teacher Training Institute and other sister institutions visited the exhibition. *** J. J. College of Arts and Science, Pudukottai, organised an awareness programme on Indian Army. Col. Thomas, Recruiting Officer, Tiruchi, was the chief guest. He elaborated the procedures to join the Indian Army as a graduate. He urged the students to join the Army to serve the country. A. Kutralam, Head, Department of Computer Applications, and Rajarathinam, NCC Officer, H. H. The Rajah's College, offered felicitations. *** The third batch of nursing students of Karpaga Vinayaga College of Nursing, Pudukottai, participated in the lamp lighting and oath taking ceremony. G. S. Ramasadu, District Revenue Officer, Marlin Jeyapal, Principal in-charge, C. S. I. Annapackiam College of Nursing and Allied Sciences, Madurai, were the chief guests. Kavitha Subramanian, Trustee, Karpaga Vinayaga Educational Trust, Subramanian, Secretary, and S. Sumithra, Principal, lit the lamp. Nirmala, Lecturer, administered the Nightingale Pledge to the students. Mr. Ramadasu, said that nursing was a noble profession. He spoke on the various qualities of a good nurse. Sumithra, Principal, presented the report. *** A two-day UGC sponsored national seminar on ‘Investor awareness' was organised by the Department of Commerce, A.V.C. College, Mayiladuthurai, in association with Ministry of Corporate affairs and ICWAI, Puducherry Chapter here at A.V.C. College recently. P. Raju Iyer SIRC of ICWAI, Chennai, was the resource person. He conducted a stock market game. B.R. Prabhakar, Vice-Chairman, SIRC of ICWAI, Bangalore and G. Gopalakrishnan, former Deputy General Manager, Central Bank of India, spoke on safe investment. G. Jayabal, Professor, Department of Bank Management and School of Management, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, deliberated on investors protection measures. R. Gnanasekaran, Principal, A.V.C. College, J. Manikandan, Chairperson, A.V.C. Institutions, C. Viswanathan, Chairperson, Puducherry Chapter of ICWAI, took part. G. Nagalingam, Committee Member, A.V.C. College presided and V.C. Davey, Registrar of Companies, Chennai, delivered the valedictory address. *** The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services of Nagapattinam organised a training programme on fire and rescue services for students of E.G.S. Pillay College of Engineering and Technology, Nagapattinam. Over 100 Mechanical Engineering students participated in the 10-day certification course. It was a programme for beginners. A group of 12 persons was the minimum requirement to conduct the training programme, said S. Arumugam, Divisional Officer, Fire and Rescue Services, Nagapattinam. The course included training on ways to handle the hose and types of extinguishers. They were oriented on mass rescue operations and disaster management. These participants have also registered with the Fire and Rescue Services of Nagapattinam as ‘fire volunteers' in times of disasters. Collector C. Munianathan distributed certificates to the 100 students who completed the training programme. Ramabalan, Principal, was present. *** The Schools of Life-Science and Physical Sciences of Thanthai Hans Roever College, Perambalur, organised a special lecture programme. P. S. Joseph, Principal, presided. He gave a lecture on the topic ‘Introduction to nanotechnology.' He highlighted the inter-disciplinary nature of nanotechnology. Jayanthi, Professor, Bio-Chemistry Department, offered felicitations. *** To commemorate the NCC Day, NCC cadets of various schools and colleges attached to 2 TN Armed Sqn NCC, Tiruchi took out an environmental awareness rally. It was flagged off from the E.R. Higher Secondary School by Mayor S. Sujatha in the presence of T.M. Srinivasan, Secretary, and Sundar, Headmaster. The rally saw participation of Associate NCC Officers and cadets of St. Joseph's College, Jamal Mohammed College, National College, E.R. Higher Secondary School, Boys Higher Secondary School, T.V. Kovil, Srirangam Boys Higher Secondary School, and Government Syed Murthuza Higher Secondary School. *** The Department of Economics of Jamal Mohamed College organised a day-long national seminar on ‘Interest-free financial system' under the UGC autonomous grant. Shariq Nizar, Director of Taqwaa Advisory and Sharia Investement Solutions Private Limited, Bangalore, presided. Ismail Sait, CEO, Mana Muna Academy, Chennai, spoke on the solution to economic problems through interest-free banking based on Islamic finance. Three technical sessions were held in which 63 research papers were presented by the participants from various colleges and universities in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Bangalore. Abdul Rahman, former Head, Department of Economics, New College, Chennai, explained the evils of online trading. M. Sheik Mohamed, Principal, presided. P. N. P. Mohamed Sahaputheen, Head, Department of Economics, offered felicitations. *** The National College in Tiruchi conducted an orientation programme for freshers to initiate them into the habit of reading. K. Anbarasu, Principal, advised the students to develop the habit of reading for updating their knowledge. P. Raghavan, Librarian, said that the college had a rich collection of books on various subjects. K. Raghunathan, Secretary, launched the issue of bar coded books to students. *** The Urumu Dhanalakshmi College in Tiruchi organised staff enrichment programme. Jeyagar Chellaraj, former Principal and V.K. Boominathan, Head, Department of Commerce, Bishop Heber College, presided. They explained various techniques to be adopted for interactive and successful classroom teaching. S. Sekar, Principal, presided. Prizes were given to K. Kamarajan, Professor, Economics Department and Anandaraj of Social Work Department. *** A two-day workshop on ‘VSLI applications in higher data rate communications and signal processing using ASIC tools' was jointly organised by coreEL Technologies and ECE Department of Oxford Engineering College. The programme aimed at updating faculty of engineering colleges with advancement in VLSI technologies. M. Subramaniam, Chairman, presided. D. Damodara, Application Specialist, coreEL Technologies, delivered the valedictory address. G. Seetharaman, Principal spoke. *** The Commerce Department was inaugurated at National College. A. Varatharajan, Regional Manager, State Bank of India, Tiruchi, was the chief guest. He explained about the banking system in India from 1786 and narrated the recent banking services. A. Krishnamoorthy, Controller of Examinations of the college, presided. K. Raghunathan, Secretary, R. Jayaraman, Head, Department of Commerce, and Professors P. Sivasamy and Iren spoke. *** Contributed by P. V. Srividya in Nagapattinam and Syed Muthahar Saqaf, K. Subramanian and G. Prasad in Tiruchi