Prabhakar Kore, MP and Chairman of KLE Society, welcomed the national policy on HIV-AIDS and underscored the need to create a supportive environment for workers to remove the stigma and discrimination against those living with HIV. Speaking at a regional-level dissemination workshop on “National Policy for the Labour Department” organised by Population Services International-Connect (PSI-Connect), the Labour Department and Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society at KLE Hospital here on Saturday, he said, “Awareness is the only medicine to prevent HIV. Drivers are most vulnerable to HIV and offices such as RTO and the Labour Department should ensure that they have access to facilities to maintain good health.” Saroja, President of Karnataka Network of People Living with HIV (KNP+), Bangalore, who has been living with HIV since 10 years, made an earnest appeal to the Government to table the HIV/AIDS Bill in Parliament. “For the last 15 years, the Bill has been waiting to be tabled in Parliament. Once it becomes a law, it will protect us from the stigma and discrimination at workplace, hospitals and schools.'' She urged everyone to involve people living with HIV in policymaking for effective implementation of the HIV prevention programme. The days of sitting in AC-rooms and managing programmes are over, she said. “Time has come to involve Positive people in the decision-making process. We are also stressing on “Positive Prevention”, and none from my community knowingly spreads the infection to others,” she said. PSI-Connect Manager, who conducted a session, highlighted how PSI had partnered with National AIDS Control Organisation and various public sector organisations for HIV workplace policies and expressed commitment to work with the Department of Labour. Project Connect, a project taken up by PSI-Connect, seeks to build a public-private partnership to increase prevention, care and treatment interventions that will prevent and mitigate effects of HIV and TB on the workforce. The International Labour Organisation and Revised National Tuberculosis Control Project are technical partners on the project. The financial support for the five-year Project Connect is coming from United States Agency for International Development.