FOR BETTER TEACHING:Delegates at the seminar on ‘Competency-based Teacher Education for Quality School Education' organised at the Dr. NGP College of Education, Coimbatore.    Dr. NGP College of Education organised a seminar on “Competency-based Teacher Education for Quality School Education”. C. Thangamuthu, Chairman, Southern Regional Committee of National Council for Teacher Education, Bangalore, stressed the fact that the very purpose of teacher education was to develop proper attitude. Various resource persons spoke on related topics. Thavamani D. Palaniswami, Secretary, released the news chronicle “Edugate 2010”. The Department of Microbiology of Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science organised a workshop on Molecular Techniques for biology students. Around 30 students from zoology department of Nirmala College for Women participated in the workshop. It focussed on nucleic acid isolation, electrophoresis of DNA, etc. A workshop manual was prepared and distributed. A five-member delegation from the United States visited the Vidyasagar College of Arts and Science, Udumalpet, in connection with a group study exchange programme. It was organised in association with the Rotary Club of Udumalpet. Students of the Adventure Club of CMS Institute of Management Studies took part in a hot air balloon show organised by the National Adventure Foundation. The event was organised at the Black Thunder Resort. Other attractions were para-sailing and bungee trampoline. A symposium on “Recent Trends in IT Scenario” was held at the Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science. S. Vijaya Kumar, HR Manager, Majestic People Infotech Private Limited, inaugurated the symposium and spoke on the topic. There were other sessions on cloud computing and also mind management skills. The 18 {+t} {+h} annual conference of the Indian Society of Otology was held at the PSG Institute of Medical Science and Research. Dr. P.G. Visvanathan was the Chairman and N.J. Rajan was the organising secretary of the conference. Various kinds of surgeries were demonstrated using advanced techniques in treatment of deafness, reconstructive middle ear surgery, implantation and other such procedures. Kathir School of Management organised a lecture on “Application of Managerial Skills in Telecom Industries”. K. Francis Jacob, Deputy General Manager (Planning), BSNL, spoke on the subject. He pointed out that the new telecom products coming out in the market had a short life span because technological upgrading was taking place at a rapid pace. Sankara College of Science and Commerce organised a faculty development programme. Nearly 40 faculty participated. G. Ramasubramanian, Human Resource Development Trainer, was the resource person. He stressed on the importance of learning by appreciation, learning by motivation and learning with curiosity and creativity. The Department of Computer Science Engineering and Information Technology of PA College of Engineering and Technology in association with the Student Chapter of Computer Society of India organised a seminar on “The Challenges and Opportunities in the IT Sector”. Resource persons from various organisations spoke on topics related to the theme of the seminar. Sree Narayana Guru College organised an exhibition on arts and science “Explore 2010”. The exhibits were prepared with a focus on schoolchildren. More than 1,500 students from 27 schools visited the exhibition. Exhibits and charts on energy production, fuel cell, vedic mathematics, etc., were the highlights of the exhibition. The Civil Engineering Department of Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology conducted a seminar on “Innovative Construction Materials” in collaboration with the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. C.M. Dharmalingam, president, Association of Consulting Civil Engineers, inaugurated the seminar and urged the students to visit construction sites as often as possible to learn about the innovative materials used. The Department of Information and Computer Technology of Sri Krishna Arts and Science College conducted a quiz competition for school students at the district level. More than 20 teams from different schools participated. First and second prizes went to the teams from Mani Higher Secondary School, and the third prize went to Trinity Higher Secondary School. The Department of Bioinformatics, Bharathiar University, organised a lecture workshop on “Structure, Function and Design of Biomolecules”. Scientists from various institutes and universities delivered special lectures. It covered various aspects of biological molecules such as mycobacterium protemics, membrane proteins, protein folding, etc. The NSS units of Coimbatore Institute of Technology organised a special NSS camp at the villages of Sengadhurai, Aeronagar, Kumarapalayam and Kalambadi. The volunteers cleaned the common areas and conducted various camps and programmes for the benefit of the villagers. They also planted saplings and put up entertainment programmes. Guruvayurappan Institute of Management organised an inter-collegiate management meet “Affiatus 2010”. There were various events like best management team, business plan, HR games, debate, finance games, business quiz, for the students to participate in. The NSS units of Sengunthar Arts and Science College organised camps at Manickampalayam. A green park was sponsored by the college to the Government School there. Various programmes for prevention of AIDS, drug addiction, for road safety, first aid, etc., were conducted for the people of the village. The RVS Institute of Management Studies organised an inter-collegiate meet “Sadhana”. R. Varadaraj, Director and Chief Executive Officer, Rajshree Sugars and Chemicals Limited, was the chief guest. He stressed the importance of students becoming industry-ready during the course of their study. Various management events were held for the students. The Nehru College of Aeronautics and Applied Sciences conducted Aero Plus, an aero exhibition. V. Gopinathan, Chief Manager-Engineering, Air India, was the chief guest. He said the industry was fine tuning itself to reach the level of international standards and the sector had the potential in offering employment opportunities for pilots, maintenance engineers and air traffic controllers. The KG College of Arts and Science organised the graduation day for the second batch of students. Saroja Prabhakaran, Vice-Chancellor, Avinashilingam University for Women, was the chief guest. She delivered the graduation address and gave away degree certificates to 248 candidates.