Eventful journey Grace Wardell   | Photo Credit:  Grace Wardell recalls a century of living in an era marked by significant lows, and astounding highs “You need to understand that she is in her second childhood.” Mark Antrobus says about his ‘Centenarian mum', Grace Wardell, Fleet Street's first woman features' editor. “Oh! So wonderful of you to come,” says 103-year-old Grace, with spontaneous warmth. Dressed in a light pullover and leggings, she is a picture of style and elegance. Grace has led a life packed with joy and sorrow, achievements, fears and disappointments and enigma. “I have lived a full life, with its quota of errors. I loved experimenting with life.” With a little prompting from her 64-year-old son, she traverses 10 decades of her life. Her earliest memory is standing atop the stairs of her family house in London as a three year old, announcing to the world that she was able to fasten her knicker buttons. The setting of her childhood years in the quieter London of Sherlock Holmes was erased by the First World War. Her father's electronic business folded, and the family sunk into penury. “Our spacious house with the billiards and music room was gone. My father had to sell his precious library. The uselessness of the war embraced my childhood.” In fact, Grace was an eyewitness to one of the Zeppelins meeting its fiery end over their kitchen garden. Held by her father, she watched in horror as “crewmen fell one by one like living flares from a firestorm in the air”. Grace was born to Ethel May Graveling, a classical pianist, and John Christian Russ, a Danish-German who immigrated to England for business. She joined the Woodford County High School in Essex in 1919 as one of its first students. After graduating, Grace sold Electrolux vacuum cleaners and also did a stint as a seamstress in London that helped her gain intimate knowledge of fashion. While Grace was happy indulging in “experiments in living”, her father entered her in Pitman's Business School, London; she wrote in shorthand with flair even eight decades later. She went on to marry William Fitz-Herbert, then on the editorial staff of London's Daily Mirror. Grace Herbert inherited the editorship of Woman's page of The London Daily Mail when her boss went on maternity leave. Coupled with her flair for dressmaking and gift for language, she excelled as a reporter of the Paris Dress Shows interviewing luminaries such as Coco Chanel and Elsa Schiaparelli. Grace was at the last dress show in her beloved Paris when the Nazis advanced. With her illustrator, she caught the last channel steamer out to safety. In 1939, she joined as a reporter under Frank Owen, Editor of Lord Beaverbrook's London Evening Standard. She shifted to London Daily Express as assistant feature editor, and later became the first woman features' editor of Fleet Street's national newspaper, responsible for a quarter of its contents. Due to paper and ink rationing, the newspaper was reduced to four pages, and managing a full page was a mighty responsibility. Grace, with her eyes and ears open, found plenty about humanity in peril to report for. During that time, Grace also befriended a spectrum of people, including poet Dylan Thomas and his wife Caitlin. Grace and Bill Herbert separated in 1935 shortly before her daughter Sally was born. A decade on, she married Edmund Antrobus, a British naturalised American who came to Britain with the American forces as a journalist for Yank, the U.S. Army newspaper. In 1945, Grace joined him with their son Mark in the U.S. The couple soon separated, and Grace was back at work as editor for the highly exciting “scandal sheet” — The National Enquirer. In 1962, Grace renewed an old acquaintance with a journalist colleague, Simon Wardell, with whom she had worked on The Daily Express. Married in Connecticut, Grace returned to Britain and assumed a new role as architect and designer to rebuild her father-in-law, Brigadier Michael Wardell's stately home in North Wales. Six years later, she lost Simon in an accident that left her legs fractured. One leg still in calipers, she arrived in India to live with her son Mark, who was a monk. Grace fell in love with India. “Smiles were frequent from those I met, particularly from the children.” “The First World War was destructive and resulted in a horrific new and improved second one. Today, I see the same destruction of the ideals we grew up with. There is need for a world rethink,” she asserts. Grace is optimistic about the future, believing in the younger generation's ability “to discover treasures beyond the gates of academic institutions”. Grace made Kodaikanal her home, where she lives with Mark, doing charity for the past four decades. They run a community library, a trust that provides free education for children of underprivileged widows, destitute women and HIV-positive mothers and feed beggars. Of late, her failing eyesight prevents her from being the voracious reader she was. The last book she enjoyed reading was Barack Obama's The Audacity of Hope. But, there are some things she still enjoys. Mark takes her out regularly for ice creams, however strenuous it is to push the wheelchair up and down the hills. And, Grace always returns aglow after the exertion!