INNOVATIVE: A student speaking at the inauguration of the students' chapter of the Institute of Engineering and Technology at Hindusthan College of Engineering and Technology in Coimbatore. INFORMATIVE: Participants at the seminar on Research Methodology and Data Interpretation held at Avinashilingam University for Women in Coimbatore.    The Red Ribbon Club of V.L.B. Janakiammal College of Engineering and Technology organised a seminar on “Role of Youth in Eradication of HIV / AIDS” in the college premises. C. Mahadevan, Reader, Department of Sexually Transmitted Diseases, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, was the chief guest. The Department of Mechanical Engineering, Kumaraguru College of Technology, recently conducted a national level workshop on “Robotics and Automation in Industries”. It was conducted in association with KCT-ISTE student chapter. G. Mohan Kumar, Principal, Park College of Engineering and Tekhnology inaugurated the workshop. The Department of International Business of N.G.M College, Pollachi, recently organised a two-day guest lecture and GAMBIT Expo. The function was inaugurated by N. Rajakumar, Principal of the college. Saifudeen, Director, EXIM Shipping Services India Private Limited, was the chief guest of the function. The Department of Biochemistry, Biotechnology, and Bioinformatics of Avinashilingam University for Women, and Society for Biological Chemists, India, conducted a seminar on “Research Methodology and Data Interpretation”. The seminar was sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology. Saroja Prabhakaran, Vice-Chancellor of the University, inaugurated it. The Department of Microbiology, Sri Narayana Guru College, conducted its first alumni meet. Nearly 150 alumni participated. Office-bearers were elected and the forthcoming activities were discussed. The Post-Graduate Department of Social Work of Nehru Arts and Science College organised a workshop on “Basic Social Work Skills”. Puduserry Srinivasan, Secretary, Kerala State Sarvodaya Mandalam, inaugurated the workshop. A.S. Shankara Narayanan, Director, Native Medicare Charitable Trust, delivered the keynote address. Experts from varied fields handled the sessions. Students of Amrita School of Engineering, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, got placements in various organisations. A function to hand over the call letters to over 500 students was organised. As many as 36 have been selected by universities abroad to pursue higher education. A two-day workshop on “Generation and Validation of Multiple Choice Questions” was held at PSG College of Arts and Science. It provided an exposure to innovative methods of generating, assessing, and validating the multiple choice questions in English, Humanities, Social Science, Commerce, Management Science, and Physical Science. As many as 27 teachers took part. Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya College of Arts And Science celebrated its college day and sports day in the college auditorium recently. Kavidasan, Director and Head, Roots Industries Limited, Coimbatore, was the chief guest. Shri Nehru Maha Vidyalaya celebrated its 21st annual day recently in the college premises. Ramani Shankar, Chief Architect, Sankar and Associates, was the chief guest. He asked students to channel the extension of their thoughts and apply them in a useful manner. The ECE department of Hindusthan College of Engineering and Technology inaugurated the students' chapter of the Institute of Engineering and Technology (I.E.T., U.K.) recently in the college premises. The function was presided over by J. Vijaya Raghavan, Secretary, I.E.T, Chennai. Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science conducted a “Brand Expo 2010” recently. It was inaugurated by P. Krishnan, Vice-President, Tirupur Export Management Association (TEKMA). The expo is an annual event conducted by the management students to enhance their managerial skills and to get exposed to the brand management area. The Department of Microbiology of Dr. N.G.P. Arts and Science College held a seminar recently as part of the National Science Day celebrations. K. Gopinathan, Deputy General Manager, Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, was the chief guest. The main discussion was based on the industries' expectation from academicians. The Department of Applied Mathematics of Bharathiar University organised a national conference on “Advances in Applied Mathematics (NCAAM-2010)” recently in the university campus. C. Balaji, Professor, Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was the chief guest. S. Subramanyan, former Vice-Chancellor of the university, delivered the keynote address. C. Swaminathan, the current Vice-Chancellor, presided. GRG School of Management Studies in partnership with Confederation of Indian Industries organised a One-Day Round Table on “Managing Entrepreneurship and Family Business: Some Lessons”. The programme addressed issues facing family businesses and entrepreneurship. C.N. Ashok, Director, Autoprint Manufacturers Private Limited, inaugurated the programme and J. Balamurugan, Chairman, CII Coimbatore Zone, delivered the special address. Gaurango Banerji and Anjana Anand