DEEPA ALEXANDER India's first open jail for women was inaugurated last month at the Yerawada Central Prison, Pune. This is a historic measure unfolding as it does in the centenary year of the International Women's Day. Initially, 50 out of the 500 women prisoners, Indian nationals and mostly lifers, chosen based on seniority and good behaviour, would be selected for the open jail. Women there would be made to do agricultural work on the 17 acres of land adjoining the prison. This would improve their physical and mental well-being and make them eligible for remission in their punishment — for every year served in the open jail, a year would be reduced from their sentence. Additionally, they will learn skills such as candle-making and screen printing to help them start a new life upon release. Our thrust is on equality — the open system is available for men prisoners, it should be available for women too. Medha Gadgil, IAS Principal Secretary, Home (Appeal and Security) Government of Maharashtra Corrections India counsels prisoners on de-addiction from alcohol and drugs. This programme, conducted in Kerala, is now in Tamil Nadu too. Upon their release, we give prisoners who are part of our programme, shelter, and rehabilitate them. Our Aswasa Bhavan project (Aruthal Illam in Theni) is for prisoners' children. We focus on children who have either or both parents in prison, who lose out on education, food and shelter. A checklist must be made on all female prisoners under 18 to determine if it is in their interests to mingle with those older. Also the design and furnishing of women's prisons should take into account their needs. And, women must be made aware of their rights, including medical-related ones such as cervical screening, and mammography for those above 50. ANINA JOSEPH MATHEW Founder, Corrections India, Pampady, Kottayam Krupa works among prisoners at Puzhal. We focus on providing prisoners a skill — computer usage, block printing, mushroom cultivation, tailoring and embroidery — that will help them earn a living after completing their sentence. We also counsel them on value systems, and help them accept that life will be difficult after their release. They also share their fears, longings, aspirations and concerns with us. Our aim is to ensure that women prisoners leave with their self esteem intact. I would like to see a situation where a person is not punished more than once for the same crime. Prison term apart, the prisoner and the family also face social ostracisation. For women, such rejection can be degrading. People need to realise that prisoners need a chance to re-establish themselves. Ultimately, we would like to see reconciliation between the families of the prisoner and the victim of the crime. GRACE BROWNING Director, Krupa Ministries, Chennai Our country allows a woman prisoner to keep her child with her till the age of five. This is distressing for the mother, and India Vision Foundation, started by Dr. Kiran Bedi, seeks to address that. We conduct vocational training projects inside Tihar Prison for women inmates, and they are compensated for their efforts in weaving tapestries and making coasters, etc. Besides providing them financial independence, this also helps them utilise their time constructively. Our Creche Project aims to improve and enhance the physical, social and emotional well-being of the children living in prison. We endeavour to nurture and inculcate moral values in children, and help them regain their childhood. Such training helps women inmates fulfil their daily requirements, and also helps their children continue their education. Monica Dhawan Project Manager (Prison project) India Vision Foundation, New Delhi As part of its work, the Gaitonde Foundation (YRG Care) conducts HIV-awareness programmes among prisoners. Interestingly, most women we met and interacted with, participated wholeheartedly, and exhibited a sense of self confidence and knowledge about HIV/AIDS. As regards societal acceptance after release some women felt the transition was traumatic, due to the paucity of rehabilitative resources for women with mental health concerns. I would like a critical social intervention to address mental health issues of women prisoners, and strengthen social ties to ease the community re-entry process. Also there should be more links between mental health providers, communities and social support groups. Sethulakshmi Manager, Community Outreach Services YRG CARE, Chennai