Born in a large family whose parents were into farming in a non-descript village near Chengalpattu, Amirtha Rajagopal knew the requirements of children and elders alike, especially those who did not have any support. Amirtha Rajagopal (60) has devoted more than half her life in helping those in need. Having completed schooling in Chengalpattu, she came to Chennai soon after her marriage and settled down in Chromepet. “I was the eleventh among 16 children and all of us worked extremely hard to come up in life. My father was a farmer and we had little access to comforts when we grew up. Hence I realised the importance of proper schooling for children, especially those who have no one to support,” said Amritha. Right from a very tender age she had been a very warm person trying to help those around her. She learnt to develop a rapport with the needy when she came in touch with Akshaya, a Mylapore-based charity institution. Her exposure here taught her to reach out to people with warmth and truth. “My whole life, I have been a member of only Akshaya and continue to be so”, she vows. Over the years, she has touched the lives of thousands of children and elders in Chennai, a few districts nearby and Nellore. In all these places she had been working with children affected by HIV. “I act as a bridge between the donors and the needy. Software companies, manufacturers of detergent powders, soaps, heavy engineering companies and individual philanthropists have been contributing immensely for the past several years”, Amirtha said. At any given point of time, her house is stocked with notebooks, clothes, toiletries, towels and furnishings, meant for distribution to welfare homes. There have been a couple of instances when certain individuals receiving help misused what they received, making it an eye-opener for her not to trust anyone blindly. “I make sure that welfare homes send a receipt of what they receive along with a note of thanks to the donor. Volunteers from the donor companies also visit welfare homes to spend some time with inmates and that way, they can see for themselves that their gesture does not go waste, says Amrita. Multinational companies are ever ready to help. They donate uniform materials, stationery, rice and dhal, other provisions, bedspreads, mattress, cots, toilet kits, calipers, spectacles and footwear among many others which welfare homes need. Her husband E.V.Rajagopal retired from a Chennai-based automobile company, while her two sons are currently working and she has been a homemaker since marriage. Her family, close group of friends and volunteers and of course donors, have stood by her in all endeavours. People who wish to contact Ms. Amirtha can reach her at 94440 30227. K. Manikandan