Wearing many hats: Laxmi is also a trained Bharatanatyam dancer and a choreographer.    Yogendra Kalavalapalli HYDERABAD: You cannot but notice Laxmi even when you are in a room crowded with people. There is an air of flamboyance about her. Standing tall at 5'11, the lady loves attention and from the way she twists and twirls the black ‘pallu' of her pearl-white sari, her curvy curls falling on her shoulders, she gets it. A fluent English speaker, boisterous voice dominating her personality, Laxmi Narayan Tripathi is a transgender who knows what her purpose in life is and how to go about it. She isn't the conventional ‘hijra' you encounter on and off. Swimming against tide, she has carved a name for herself and today dons many hats. From leading a community-based organisation ‘Astitva' that fights for rights of sexual minorities, she has appeared on numerous telly shows, holds the distinction of being the first transgender to represent the United Nation's Civil Society Task Force at UNAIDS conference, was a member of Bill Gates Foundation and a visiting faculty member at the School of Dance and theatre, Amsterdam. Few know she is a trained Bharatanatyam dancer and a choreographer. “Dance was a good curtain to hide my sexuality,” says the owner of nine dance schools, “Today it has become a platform to express my identity.” “People from my community are a discriminated lot. There is lot of stigma, discrimination, verbalisation, non-acceptance, people see through you, people don't want to relate to you,” she says. Ever been embarrassed? She laughs it off: “I was from a different world altogether. There is no word in my dictionary that embarrasses me.” Unlike many transgenders, Laxmi, hailing from an orthodox Brahmin family, hasn't changed her biological name or left home. Instead she chose to carry herself with aplomb and proudly professes to her sexuality. Having earned fame is politics in the air? “I am a social worker and I have no interest in politics because when you are in politics you only look into the issues of your constituency. As a social worker I feel that is not the way we should look into the rights issue of everybody. We have to create spaces in the community where we are treated respectfully.” Probe her on how they plan to pressurise the government and Laxmi brings up her latest brainchild, a beauty contest for the transgender community. “VCare Indian Super Queen is one of the festivals which will go down in history. If the discrimination falls off, people will respect and there will be proper place for every sexual minority in the society. This is a beginning. Rome was not built in a day, my honey!”