layers of taste Dahi Kabab at Pind Balluchi    I n the heart of the Capital, in Connaught Place's Regal building, restaurant-cum-bar Pind Balluchi has recently opened an outlet, presenting its speciality, the food of a   (village) in a bucolic ambience. . Typically, adhoti-kurta clad staff welcomes you with folded hands and a ‘Sat Sri Akal'.What you notice first are brass utensils kept to add that traditional touch. In the background, traditional Punjabi songs play on, while a colourful wall is adorned by a tree in the middle.The dim orange-and-pink lights, wooden chairs, multi-coloured bangles, tables and manji (traditional cot), dholak, paintings of fields, concave mirror on the wall, and giant chariot wheels bring alive the typical village experience here. The first floor, with its view of the starlit sky, is quite staggering and spacious. The menu, printed on a wooden board, comprises sections like Shuruaat, Khazana-e-Kabab, Murg te Meat, Dal te Subzian, Khusbhu-e-Basmati and desserts. I begin with Shuruaat, which includes an array of drinks. I settle for the time-tested jaljeera, which comes cool, spicy and chilled with crunchy boondi on top. Among starters, you can have the famous gillafi chicken seekh in non-vegetarian and dhai ke kabab in the vegetarian section. In Khazana-e-kabab, dhaba meat and butter paneer masala are most popular. On the chef's recommendation, I go for the butter paneer masala, a delectable dish of cottage cheese cooked with a tomato-based gravy and a lot of butter and cream. If you are looking for some light snacks, you can have the aloo chana chat here, made with special spices mixed with boiled potato, onion, cilantro, tomato, chilli and lemon. Going on to the main course, I try the feted dal makhani, pindi chole, mixed raita and khasta roti. Dal makhani is very creamy and fine, but pindi chhole with ginger, onion and tomato and the flavour of herbs stands out. Khasta roti comes crispy; cooked in tandoor and filled with carom seeds. Mixed raita, piled with chopped onion, cucumber, tomato and cumin, tastes both sweet and salty. In non-vegetarian, you can have murg tandoori. It also offers a special dish of the day, known as Aaj ki Subzi. I get aloo palak. In dessert, I order matka kulfi and pan kulfi. Matka kulfi comes in a clay plot, a yummy chilled sweet dessert with pistachio and dry fruit. The green pan kulfi, filled with mint, saffron, aniseed and gulkand, gives the refreshing taste of pan. SHIVANI JAIN