Multi-faceted Devika Bhise    I t's that time of the year when people start circling dates on their calendars, double circles sometimes. Between Christmas and New Year, it's considered normal. December 23 at New Delhi's Saket's Select City Walk, will see a performance of Jazz by a group of accomplished artistes. A mall might look an unlikely place for languorous Jazz sessions, but this looks promising, with Devika Bhise taking care of vocals, accompanied by Ben Rosenblum, Babush Santana and Joseph Vessoaker. New York-based Devika has yet to turn 20, but is already a veteran of numerous stage productions like   (as Rosa Alvarez), Gilbert and Sullivan's  ,   (as Fantine),   (as Chiffon),   (as Namagiri), and T.S. Eliot's   (as Celia Copplestone). On mixed influences, “I think it's mostly because growing up in New York is being surrounded by a bunch of Americans like us. My parents have influenced me in the Indian cultural side of it. I started Bharatanatyam when I was four or five and alongside that I started Hindustani classical vocal and then I started music and Waltz. When I got older and started to develop on my own in Manhattan, I started getting involved in singing in school. So that's when I started playing the piano, and I played the violin for a little bit…,” says Devika, currently a sophomore at John Hopkins University, when contacted over phone. Soon, the interest in dance started, with Hip Hop, Jazz, Salsa and Modern Dance becoming areas of choice. Singing-wise, Devika joined a Cappella group, and took to singing in choirs in high school. Jazz happened because that's what she “enjoyed the most.” “But my basis for both singing and dancing come from Indian influences,” says Devika. “I just sort of branched out into more westernised ways and hope I used what I got from Indian culture to help me with whatever I was doing in Western art.” Affiliated to the Screen Actors Guild, she has also acted in two films —   (by Griffin Dunne), and   (by the New York Film Academy). Devika's documentary,  , won the Best Social Documentary Award at the Los Angeles Film festival and was screened at Lincoln Center, the New York Film Festival and India Habitat Centre in the Capital. With her fingers in so many pies, is it difficult to pick one as higher on her list of priorities? “I love to act,” Devika replies without a pause. “I love to act in musicals, in particular; it includes all of the three things I love to do, which is acting, singing and dancing… Acting, right now, is my primary purpose.” The Jazz performance in the Capital will be in aid of children diagnosed with cancer. On causes, Devika says she'd want to be associated with, cancer and HIV-AIDS assume importance. Cancer, because of a personal connection. “My grandfather died of cancer. And someone who my mother (Swati Bhise) and I used to teach in dance classes died of cancer. She was eight years old.” AIDS and HIV treatment, because of her previous work on the documentary on the third gender. “Many of the people I interacted with were diagnosed with HIV soon after I stopped working with them or as I was working with them. Watching that whole process unfold made quite an impact,” recalls Devika. For now, the learning graph will climb higher. “Next Fall I'm applying to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts… And I have my fingers crossed about that.” SHALINI SHAH