P ublished in 1843, Charles Dickens' novella   has never gone out of print. It has been adapted for the stage and the school text-book and it has also hit the silver screen. The story is so familiar that Scrooge, the protagonist, has been enshrined in the English language as an epitome of miserliness. Therefore, for anyone trying to re-create it in any form, the novella's perpetual popularity is a big hurdle. Unless the treatment is different or exceptionally good, a group that stages this well-known story will be asking to be pilloried. Who will sit through a familiar story that is being poorly presented? If the audience at the Museum Theatre stayed glued to their seats till the last moments of Mellow Circle's dramatic musical based on this Dickensian work, it was because director Michael Muthu, music director Augustine Paul and the actors had given it their best shot. The dedication of the cast was evident in the way Vinod Anand, who played the ripe old Ebenezer Scrooge, conducted himself after the play. When the curtains were down and the actors could be themselves again, Vinod Anand did not snap out of his character. While walking up to the front of the stage, he displayed the gait and mannerisms of a wizened old man, as he had admirably done throughout the play. Thomas Philip's remarkable ability to switch between two very different roles (as the worn-out, dishevelled and crestfallen ghost of Jacob Marley and the gregarious Mr. Fezziweg with a knack for throwing the best Christmas parties), the forceful and compelling dialogue delivery of Santosh Abraham (the ghost of Christmas present), Dr. Yohan Chacko's convincing performance as Bob Cratchit (the timid, disciplined and faithful clerk in Scrooge'counting house) and the elfin grace of Rebecca Mathai (the ghost of Christmas past) contributed greatly to brilliant presentation. Vinod Anand excelled as the brooding, penny-pinching, ageing and bewildered Scrooge. The roar of applause during the credits showed how many hearts he had captured with his performance. Despite facing the limitations of minor roles, actors such as Ashish Abraham (as the young Scrooge) Saroop Oommen (as Scrooge's nephew Fred) and Sangita Santosham (as Mary, who loved the young Scrooge) did a decent job. As the majority of the cast dabble in theatre, a major chunk of the credit for the overall good acting should go to the director. Carol-singing was cleverly woven into the narrative. Dressed like men and women from Victorian England, the choir seemed inseparable from the cast. In fact, it took the story forward as if it were an actor with many voices. On two occasions, the choristers gagged on their words when they see Scrooge, the man with a mammoth disdain for Christmas festivities. Even when they had not marched on to the stage, the choristers were heard humming tunes, backstage. The sparse sets were effectively employed. Careful planning meant that different atmospheres were created merely by shifting a few things around. The most remarkable aspect of the event was how the musical blended into the cause it promoted. A fund-raiser for Prathyasha (a Mellow Circle project supporting HIV-affected children), the story showed Scrooge's transformation from a pessimistic miser to a jolly good man who gives liberally to charity. It appeared to be a call to the audience to make a commitment to these children this Christmas. PRINCE FREDERICK