One fails to understand the Congress song and dance on the integrity and honesty of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. No one doubts Dr. Singh's credibility. At the same time, the Opposition is justified in asking why he did not take action against the former Telecom Minister, A. Raja, for almost two years when he knew that there were gross irregularities in the allocation of the 2G spectrum licence. Dr. Singh's offer to appear before the Public Accounts Committee does not mean anything. He cannot choose the committee before which to appear, as his government is involved in the scam. The former British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, submitted himself to questioning by a parliamentary committee on his role in the Iraq war. That is what democracy is all about. V.S. Kaushik, Dr. Singh's claim that he has nothing to hide and is ready to appear before the PAC — after rejecting the Opposition demand for a JPC probe into the spectrum scam and paralysing the winter session of Parliament — is unnecessary. He knows that the PAC cannot render justice. It is not just the BJP but the entire Opposition that wants a JPC probe. C. Lakshmi Narain, This refers to the report that Sonia Gandhi has declared a war on the BJP. Instead, she should declare a war on corrupt Congressmen and UPA Ministers. She should advise her party activists to publicise the UPA government's achievements, instead of wasting time talking about the BJP's doublespeak. B.K. Mahenthran, The Congress is struggling hard to wriggle out of the series of scams in which it has got entangled. It is, therefore, trying to divert the nation's attention by raising the question of saffron terror which is hardly existent compared to cross-border and Maoist terror. Its seriousness in handling the various scams stands exposed. One can well imagine what to expect from it. A JPC alone is the solution. O. Srinivas, The article “Those other problems in Andhra Pradesh” (Dec. 21) points to what is perhaps the toughest situation for the Congress in recent times. The party is being punched on three fronts — the Telangana issue, the farmers' issue and the Jaganmohan Reddy factor. But the Telugu Desam Party and other political parties in the State should understand that they would not have been able to handle the farmers and the Telangana issues any better had they been in power. They require a joint action by all political parties. All parties raise the same issues in the legislature but in no time each party starts claiming that it is the best people can ever see. Instead of wasting valuable time, they should all get down to working together to find a solution to the crucial issues. Mudunuri Sree Harsha, The article rightly says the Congress is losing its significance in Andhra Pradesh. Its obsession with Jagan Reddy has alienated it from farmers and the people of the Telangana region. The Congress has unwittingly made heroes out of three Opposition leaders — KCR on the Telangana issue, Chandrababu Naidu on the farmers' issue and Chiranjeevi in politics. In the process, it has lost its connect with the people and laid the ground for the emergence of new regional parties. K. Vinaya Kumar, I am afraid my answer to the question raised in the Open Page article “Corruption: have we taken it for granted?” (Dec. 19), was a big ‘yes.' The article was a real eye-opener for me. I always knew that corruption was a plague but I did not realise that it had pervaded our day-to-day lives so much that we consider most corrupt practices mere formalities. People associate corruption only with mega scams like spectrum and the CWG, which involve big people and money. We do not realise that if we work together, we can eliminate corruption. Martin Joseph, Terrorism, indiscipline, and corruption are the most dreaded diseases afflicting our nation. Monitoring bodies such as the judiciary, the CVC and the Enforcement Directorate, to name a few, are unable to contain corruption thanks to political interference and a lack of transparency. The other factors are huge population and vast areas, poverty and illiteracy, caste and community-based political parties, electoral malpractices and irresponsible media. T. Ramachandraprasad, The writer narrates his experience changing the name on a  . Had he not bribed the officials, his work would not have been completed the same day. He saved his time, energy and transportation charges. Wasn't he clever? But look at the revenue officer who was caught while accepting a bribe in Kanyakumari for the same work. He will go to prison if found guilty. G. Purusothaman, The article “Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater” (Open Page, Dec. 19) cleared my confusion, created by an earlier article “Where the prescription looks like the laundry list” (Dec. 5). Poly pharmacy is inevitable in the contemporary era, where longevity has increased, degenerative diseases of multiple organs are the order of the day and the geriatric population is on the increase. We continue to ignore primary prevention modalities, and an ageing population moves towards secondary and tertiary complications in spite of master health check-ups. Dr. E. Subbarayan, I follow modern medicine for my grandfather who is a diabetic. The article was reassuring and cleared many of my doubts. Omkar Shlok, It was refreshing to see Dr. N.M. Arun elegantly defending the role of randomised controlled trials in modern science, while pointing out its potential deficiencies. Another point in defence of RCT is the fact that while comparing the efficacy of two treatments, if and when there is enough data to show a clear benefit to one treatment, the study will be immediately stopped by the independent data monitoring committee and the better treatment made available — as in the case of the 1986 landmark study of AZT vs placebo for patients with AIDS. However, an ethical glitch is that it takes away the patient's role in decision making. Dr. S. Jayabose, Allopathy revolutionised medicine and improved life expectancy. Although released after comprehensive RCTs, drugs have side-effects. Many have been withdrawn due to unprecedented complications. Traditional systems treat the cause, which is why they take time. You can't ignore homeopathy as having a placebo effect because some parliamentary committee or medical association made an observation. Nanotechnology has been practised by homeopaths for long. We can't ignore life-saving allopathic medicines but if other forms of medicines offer hope, why not accept them? A. Murugan,