To follow rules:Students of Jamal Mohamed College of Education, taking out a traffic awareness rally in Tiruchi on Saturday.   | Photo Credit:  The students of Jamal Mohamed College of Education in connection with the citizenship training camp, took out a traffic awareness rally in the city. The students carried banners and placards with slogans to follow traffic rules to bring down the accident rate. They marched via TVS Tollgate, Pudukottai road etc before returning back to the college. *** The Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University at Kumulur recently organised a special NSS camp and also an exhibition of agricultural implements at Elementary School in Peruvalappur. Farmers from several parts of Tiruchi district visited the exhibition. Agricultural implements including seed drill, post-harvest tools, etc. were on display. V.M. Duraisamy, Professor, presided over the function. He explained the importance of agricultural implements. T. Pandiarajan, Associate Professor and Head (Processing), S. Sriramajayam, Assistant Professor (Bio Energy) and others spoke. *** The History Association of St. Joseph's College organised Dr. M. Arumairaj Endowment Lecture recently. Rev. R. Rajarathinam, Principal of the college, presided. Franz Josef Vollmer, former consultant, Caritas International – Europe, was the chief guest. He delivered a lecture on the topic ‘Christian subjects in Indian art.' He spoke on pictorial form of art in which life of Gods and saints were represented. This pictorial depiction of God was prohibited in the Old Testament and also it is the fundamental rule in Islam. In the western world this trend changed later and created a great impact in the field of art and architecture. When the Europeans came to India, they brought the tradition and spread the same in India. He emphasised that western art which spread during the colonial period gradually started to absorb the Indian style in it. Rev. Joseph Antony Samy, Head of the Department and others offered felicitations. *** The Department of Physics of National College, organised an astronomical awareness camp recently. The objective of the camp is to orient the students on space and astronomy. M. Laxmanan, Professor of Eminence, Department of Non Linear Dynamics, Bharathidasan University, in his inaugural address stressed the need for science graduates to pursue research work. He spoke about the importance of astronomy in various areas of research. K. Sundaraman, scientist in-charge, Indian Institute of Astrophysics, in his key-note address stressed on the significance of the camp. He highlighted on the works of Galileo, Copernicus, Newton and Stephen Hawkins. K. Anbarasu, Principal, presided. S. Pari, Head, Department of Physics, of the college offered felicitations. *** The Department of Computer Science of Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College organised a one-day UGC- sponsored seminar on ‘Cyber Feast-2010.' G. Kalyani, Principal of the college presided over the seminar. She said that the objective of the seminar was to highlight on the opportunities in Information Technology. She spoke on cyber crime and positive uses of cyber technology. Leo Ananth, chairman of eQuadriga software firm in Tiruchi, in his keynote address advised the students to update their knowledge and communication skill to face the challenges in the existing competitive global employment scenario. S. Lavanya, Head of NIIT, Tiruchi, delivered a lecture on Java and Sun certification. I. Manikandan spoke on system maintenance. *** The Department of Commerce of Jamal Mohamed College recently organised the valedictory function of the Commerce Association. M. Sheik Mohamed, Principal, presided over the function. She advised the final year B.Com students to appear for TANCET examination. Joseph Anbarasu, Professor of Commerce, Bishop Heber College, delivered the valedictory address. He explained on the job opportunities for commerce graduates and about the avenues of higher studies. He distributed merit certificates and cash awards to the candidates who have passed ICWA foundation and ICWA Inter and Chartered Accountants examinations. K.A.Khaleel Ahamed, treasurer of the college and others spoke. *** Red Ribbon Club was recently inaugurated at M.A.M. College of Engineering and Technology, Siruganur. M. A. Mohamed Nizam, secretary and correspondent of M. A. M. Group of Institutions presided over the function. He stressed on the need for awareness on HIV-AIDS among youngsters. He also spoke about the importance of blood donation. R. Jasariya Mary, RRC District Manager, Tiruchi, was the chief guest. She spoke on the various modes of transmission of HIV. She wanted the student volunteers to create awareness about the disease. A. Thamizh, president of Network of Positive People in Tiruchi, described about the various sufferings, human rights violations and humiliations encountered by AIDS affected people. K.Kumar, Principal of the college and others spoke. *** The Department of Applied Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering of J.J. College of Engineering and Technology, recently conducted a 12-day AICTE-sponsored staff development programme on ‘Recent advancements in intelligent measurements and control.' P. Ganapathy Raman, Maintenance Engineer of BHEL, Ranipet, delivered a lecture on ‘Introduction of digital signal processing and its applications.' T. K. Radhakrishnan, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, spoke on ‘System identification and adaptive control for chemical process.' *** The Department of Business Administration of MIET Arts and Science College recently organised a special programme on ‘Budget 2010 – an analysis.' R. Rangarajan, Assistant Professor of Economics of Annamalai University Distance Education, who delivered the lecture explained about the merits and demerits of the Budget. P.M. Mansure, Principal of the college, Prof. Abdul Kareem and others spoke. *** The PG and Research Department of Social Work of Bishop Heber College and Peoples Development Initiative (PDI) in collaboration with Child Jesus Hospital, recently conducted a free general medical camp at Srinivas Clinic campus in Sangiliyandapuram in Tiruchi. Victoria Johnson of Jenet Hospital, K. S. Vijayalakshmi from Srinivas Clinic and Paul Prakash from Child Jesus Hospital took part. About 250 people attended the camp. A. Jesintha, coordinator of PDI, presided. Sr. Isabellah from Child Jesus Hospital, B. Arun Kumar and Lecturer of Bishop Heber College spoke. *** The Department of Biomedical Engineering of Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Engineering College, Perambalur, organised a two-week long programme on ‘Recent trends in Biomedical Engineering using MATLAB Simulation Tools.' Inaugurating the AICTE-sponsored programme, S. Raghavan, Professor of Electronics and Communication Engineering, National Institute of Technology – Tiruchi, spoke on the importance of technical co-ordination between doctors and engineers. Biomedical engineering, an emerging area in India, has created a great and positive impact on the health care industry. Dr. Raghavan explained on the applications of drug delivery system, diabetics monitoring and control systems, pacemaker and nano medicines. The applications of Bio Macro Electro Mechanical System (Bio MEMS) would bring about a revolution in the field of medicine in future. Doctors of various specialities in co-ordination with engineers, would do wonders in the health care scenario in future, he said. Narayanan, Co-ordinator of the course and also Head, Department of Biomedical Engineering, of the college spoke on the objective of the programme. About 40 faculty members of various engineering colleges in the State participated in the programme. *** COMPILED BY K. SUBRAMANIAN AND SYED MUTHAHAR SAQAF AND M. BALAGANESSIN IN TIRUCHI