Orientation programme: (From left) Speakers at the valedictory session of a refresher course conducted at the Academic Staff College of Madurai Kamaraj University; school students participating in an AIDS awareness programme organised by Fatima College; NSS volunteers of Arul Anandar College performing a folk dance at Sathankudi village.    Refresher courses in Chemistry, Physics and History concluded at the UGC Academic Staff College of Madurai Kamaraj University with a valedictory address delivered by P. Kingsley Alfred Chandrasekaran, Director, UGC Academic Staff College, University of Madras. P. B. Gopalakrishnan, Director-in-charge, welcomed the gathering. The course coordinators Soundarrajan, Muthu Subramaniam, Ramu and R. Santhakumar presented their reports. Prof. Kingsley stressed the importance of refresher courses. Arockyasamy proposed a vote of thanks. A one-day seminar on ‘Stylistics' was organised by the Department of Linguistics, School of Tamil Studies, MK University. A. Athithan, Head, Department of Linguistics, explained the objectives of the seminar. R. Karpaga Kumaravel, Vice-Chancellor, delivered the presidential address. E. Sundaramoorthy, former VC, Tamil University called for formulation of new stylistic techniques to evaluate the style of different creative writers. Twenty two research papers were presented in four sessions by professors and research scholars from Annamalai, Bharathiar and Madurai Kamaraj universities. *** The Red Ribbon Club of Fatima College conducted an AIDS awareness programme for higher secondary students of Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Mahaboobpalayam on the occasion of World AIDS Day. Amudha, Headmistress, inaugurated the session. Palanisamy, District Manager, RRC, wanted the students to play a vital role in guiding and counselling AIDS patients and also briefed them about the causes and symptoms of AIDS. The RRC student volunteers of Fatima College presented a skit about social acceptance and a ‘villupattu' on awareness. The Home Science Department of the college conducted a nutrition camp as part of extension activity at Athalai village. The camp activities included free medical check up, exhibition on nutritional awareness and a rally on the objective of imparting knowledge of nutrition to people of various age groups, especially women. A nutritional survey was conducted to assess the nutritional status of the residents. A free medical camp was conducted for all age groups. *** The National Service Scheme units of Arul Anandar College conducted a special camp at Sathankudi village in Tirumangalam taluk. The camp was inaugurated by Sarojini, panchayat president. S. Arul Gnanasekar of Good Hope Foundation spoke about the importance of understanding one's self to become a leader. The volunteers engaged themselves in cleaning community assets like community halls, schools, places of worship and pathways. They also planted 110 saplings in the village. During the camp, the volunteers were trained in various folk arts, which were used effectively to carry messages on social issues like women empowerment, female infanticide and alcoholism to the rural masses. Guest lectures on HIV/AIDS, personality development and career guidance were delivered to the students. Chinniah, NSS Programme Coordinator, MK University, delivered the valedictory address. Programme Officers, Arul, Rajula, Kennedy and Jegadeeswari coordinated the activities of the camp. A three-day refresher programme for staff of self-finance courses and management was organised at the college with the objective of facilitating holistic development. Sixty staff members from various disciplines attended the course. The Deputy Principal, Rev. Fr. I. Devanan, welcomed the gathering. The Principal, Rev. Fr. Xavier Vedam, delivered the inaugural address. A. Joseph, Rector, offered felicitations. M. R. Arul Raja, freelance consultant, served as the resource person. The Centre for Women Studies of the college, Alumni Association and Campus Ministry jointly organised the centenary celebrations of Mother Teresa. About 420 girl students took part in the celebration in which P. S. Pandian and S. V. L. Michael of St. Xavier's College, Palayamkottai, Palayamkottai, spoke about the virtues of Mother Teresa. Rev. Fr. S. Peter Xavier, Head, Department of Commerce, welcomed the gathering, T. Christo Priya proposed a vote of thanks. *** The St. Paul's Women's Hostel building of St. Justin's College of Education, sponsored by the University Grants Commission, was declared open by G. Srinivas, Deputy Secretary. In his address, the head of UGC's south eastern regional office in Hyderabad, highlighted the need for quality in teacher education. S. David Amirtharajan, Dean, MK University, and Rev. Fr. Xavier Vedham, Principal, Arul Anandar College, addressed the gathering. Rev. Sr. Arul Mary, Principal, welcomed the gathering. Rev. Sr. Mary, Warden, proposed a vote of thanks. *** A new course, B. Ed. (Special Education/Mental Retardation), was inaugurated at CSI College of Education by C. Ramasubramaniam, State Nodal Officer, Mental Health Project. Rt. Rev. A. Christopher Asir, Bishop, blessed the inaugural function. Dr. Ramasubramaniam highlighted the requirement of special educators in the State and the special benefits and concessions offered by the government for encouraging such programmes. The Director, J.P. Gabriel, addressed the gathering. Denisia of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Tirunelveli, congratulated the efforts of the college in launching the special programme. The Principal, D. Mary Kanaga Saratha, welcomed the gathering and the programme co-ordinator Immanuel proposed a vote of thanks. *** The NSS unit of CSI Jeyaraj Annapackiam College of Nursing and Allied Sciences, and Thulasi Pharmaceutical Company, Coimbatore, conducted a free diabetic medical consultation camp at Pasumalai. Those who reported at the camp were provided free medical consultation by a team of doctors led by Chandrasekar, Medical Officer, Tamil Nadu AIDS Initiative. An exhibition on nutrition and health was also organised on the occasion. *** The Placement and Training Cell of Sri Vidya College of Engineering and Technology, Virudhunagar, organised a two-day workshop on ‘Effective interview techniques' for first year MBA students. HR consultant R. Dhanasekaran spoke about resume writing, body language, presentations, stress management and interview preparation. The chairman, R. Thiruvengada Ramanuja Doss, presided. J. John Irudhaya Sudhakar, Placement Officer, welcomed the gathering. The Principal, K. Ramar, addressed the students. J. Peter proposed a vote of thanks. The departments of Physics and Chemistry of the college organised guest lectures on ‘Crystal physics and Carbon nanotubes.' O. Mahendran of Saraswathi Narayanan College, Madurai, delivered a lecture on ‘Crystal physics.' N. Prithivikumaran of VHNSN College, Virudhunagar, spoke on ‘Carbon nanotubes.' *** The Faculty Academic Forum of Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi, organised a lecture on ‘Some hints on correct English' by V. Chandrabose, Head, Department of English. R. Muthuraman of Department of Commerce welcomed the gathering. The presidential address was delivered by S. Kanmani, Principal. Prof. Chandrabose explained how English grammar was easier to learn when compared with Tamil grammar. T. Ramalakshmi proposed a vote of thanks. A lecture on ‘Emotional Intelligence' was delivered by P. Srinivasan, Head, Department of Hotel Management and Catering Science, and I. Grace Julia of Department of Management Studies. M.J. Senthilkumar of Department of Commerce welcomed the gathering. R. Geetha proposed a vote of thanks. A talk on ‘Be Friend, Philosopher and Guide' was delivered by R. Janakiraman of Sree Sevugan Annamalai College, Devakottai. *** Compiled by K. Kaushik and S. Annamalai