Staff Reporter Nagercoil: The Self Help Group women in the villages are not only accepting the HIV patients but are providing them financial support to sustain their livelihood. The credit for this humane act goes to the story telling club members in different parts of the district. The members of the self help groups have been involved in reducing stigma and discrimination related to HIV/AIDS among the school children and the community through story telling clubs in schools. The story tellers from the 36 story telling clubs in the schools have already completed the sensitization of 18,500 school children against the stigma through story telling sessions. The impact had already been assessed through interaction of HIV positive persons and the school children. Now it has shifted the focus to the villages, particularly the Self Help Group women promoted by the local NGOs. The modus operandi is simple but effective. The local NGOs organised meetings of SHGs in which the story tellers from the schools tell stories on stigma/discrimination developed by them based on real life case studies. This sensitization will continue till they agreed to accept the HIV positive people and established social interaction with them. On a particular date, the SHG women, HIV positive person, preferably women and the story teller used to meet in the village and then started their emotional social interaction. The HIV positive person narrated the agony and pain suffered due to stigma and discrimination as well as the economic hardship suffered by her due to this inhuman social exclusion. Moved by the heart rending history of the affected person, the women share snacks with the affected woman, consoled her and collected money from their savings for her. So far, the Vasantham Trust has conducted such interaction with more than 75 SHGs. Recently a local NGO, CHARDEP has organised two social interactions in two coastal villages – Enayamputhenthurai and Colachel in which more than 80 women, two HIV positive persons and two story tellers from the schools participated. C. Chandra Kala, Director of Vasantham Trust said that this program was intended to reduce stigma through creating an enabling social atmosphere. The ultimate aim was to create Kanyakumari a stigma free district.