The district administration, in association with the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu and Tamil Nadu AIDS Control Society, organises a 2-day ‘Youth Carnival' at Anna Stadium, Palayamkottai on August 4 and 5 with the objective of educating and motivating the youngsters to fight against HIV / AIDS. “Since more than 73 per cent of the youths have misconceptions on the modes of HIV transmission, much of their vulnerability stems from poor access to correct information. Hence, we firmly believe that the sports and cultural events to be organised as part of the ‘Youth Carnival' will undoubtedly sensitise them to HIV / AIDS, one of the greatest challenges the world is now facing,” Collector M. Jayaraman told reporters here on Tuesday. Events such as kabaddi, volleyball, basketball, football and hockey matches and diverse competitions in artistic skills are to be organised at Anna Stadium, in which over 1,500 students from 32 colleges in the district are likely to participate. Apart from these ‘active participants,' another 5,000 students are expected to visit the HIV / AIDS awareness exhibition and witness cultural events highlighting the facts and fallacies about this dreaded disease. Winners of these competitions will represent the district in the State-level event, ‘Ilavattam' to be held in Chennai from August 10 to 12. “The youth carnival by and for the youths will provide them an unique opportunity to express their ideas about HIV / AIDS in different ways. Hence they will understand the dreadfulness of the disease so that they can effectively exhibit their talents and win prizes,” Dr. Jayaraman noted. Giving a power-point presentation, District Program Manager, District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit, Narayana Sreenivasan said as many as 190 persons had been tested positive for HIV in the district during the past three months (between April and June) and most of the victims were labourers from the rural areas where awareness levels about this disease was very low. “Of these 196 victims, 110 patients are in the age group between 20 and 39. Therefore, we have to create awareness among this section through various activities like this youth carnival,” Dr. Narayana Sreenivasan noted. He assured that concrete measures would be taken to ensure the ‘regular loading' of the condom vending machines installed at various points across the district.