Good start: Activities of Electronics and Communication Engineering Association of Muthayammal Engineering College, Rasipuram, were inaugurated recently. — Photo: Special Arrangement    Shri Sakthikailassh Women's College, Salem, inaugurated a series of clubs recently. Salem District Revenue Officer V. Kalai Arasi was the guest of honour. Principal K. Sujatha Malini welcomed the gathering. Chairman K. Kailasam delivered a special address. Correspondent K. Senthil Kumar presided. Secretary K. Rajavinayagam delivered the key note address. The chief guest asked the students to develop leadership qualities and also motivated them by stating that every individual was responsible for the welfare of her State, society and country. Women empowerment was essential, she said. Arts Club, Fine Arts Club, Life Science Club, Basic Science Club, Cyber Club, English Literary Association and Tamil Literary Association besides academic oriented clubs and social oriented clubs like NSS, Youth Red Cross, Rotaract, Consumer Club, Red Ribbon Club etc., were inaugurated. The activities of the Electronics and Communication Engineering Association of Muthayammal Engineering College at Rasipuram in Namakkal district were inaugurated by Jeyasingh Pathrose, Chief Technical Officer, Jasmin Infotech Pvt.Ltd., Chennai. In his presentation, he insisted on the importance of Digital Signal Processers for various applications including modern home and automobiles. He reiterated that the students with depth knowledge in Digital Signal Processing and its related areas would be placed in core industries and other automotive electronic based industries. Principal M. Madheswaran, in his presidential address, briefed about the functioning of department associations and the responsibilities of the office-bearers. Chairman R. Kandasamy and Secretary K. Gunasekaran participated. Around 400 students and staff members attended and benefited. A combined annual training programme of the 12th Battalion of the NCC unit, Salem, is on at the Jayam College of Engineering and Technology, Nallanur, in Dharmapuri district. The programme was inaugurated by Col. Varghese Antony, Commanding Officer, 12th Battalion, NCC Salem unit, in the presence of M. Ramesh, Chairman, JCET. Over 700 students including 15 women corps of NCC from Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Vellore are participating. They are given training in shooting, road safety and traffic control, AIDS and cancer awareness. Jayalakshmi Institute of Technology at Thoppur in Dharmapuri district has adopted Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Mecheri, in Salem district. An MoU was signed by Chief Educational Officer N.K. Rajarajan and JIT Chairman C. Subramanian. Public address systems with accessories worth Rs. 50,000 were handed over to the school authorities through the Chendaramarai Ramanujam Educational Services Trust, governed by JIT. (Special Correspondent in Salem & R Arivanantham in Krishnagiri)