Dedicated service : (Clockwise from top left) Nursing students of TVS Community College at the capping ceremony; R. Murugesan, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University of Technology, Madurai (fourth from left), releasing the course material for an induction programme for teachers at K. L. N. College of Engineering; K. Muneeswaran of Mepco Schlenk Engineering College handing over a prize to a winner of an essay writing contest at Sri Vidya College of Engineering and Technology, Virudhunagar; Mike Hoskins, CTO, Pervasive Software, USA (centre), at a lecture meeting organised at Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi; Speakers at the inaugural session of a workshop on ‘Grammatical and literary commentaries of ancient Tamil' at Standard Fireworks Rajaratnam College for Women, Sivakasi; Speakers at a NSS camp organised by Government Industrial Training Institutes of Veerakeralamputhur, Ambasamudram and Tenkasi at Poolangulam in Tirunelveli District.    Nursing students of TVS Community College had their ‘lighting and capping' at TVS Matriculation Higher Secondary School in a solemn ceremony. V. S. Rajan, Managing Trustee of Vikhrala Trust, Coimbatore, was the chief guest. Sivakami Saravanan of Madurai Medical College, Shanmuga Perumal of Lee Hospital, Vasanthakumar Bhatt, Chief Medical Officer, TVS Hospital, and R. Srinivasan, Director, TVS Schools, addressed the gathering. Punitha welcomed the gathering. Josephine Mercy presented the annual report. Maniammal, Nursing Superintendent, TVS Hospital, Sharada Rajan and Selvi Santhosam lighted the lamps and capped the students. Mr. Rajan, emphasised that nursing was a noble profession and the student nurses must pledge to serve the community with greater devotion and love for patients. Nursing students, he said, must update their knowledge periodically to be more effective in the profession. Col. Janagarajan, Correspondent, TVS Schools, presented the diplomas to the students of 2009-10 batch. K. Srinivasan awarded the trophy for the best outgoing student to Tamizhselvi. Kanagaraj proposed a vote of thanks. *** An induction training programme for technical teachers was conducted at K.L.N. College of Engineering in association with Anna University of Technology. R. Murugesan, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University of Technology, Madurai, stressed the need for attending such training programmes periodically in order to equip themselves with the recent trends in the industry. T. K. Mahendra Babu, advisor, welcomed the gathering. R.T. Sakthidaran, Dean, proposed a vote of thanks. S.V.S. Shivnath, secretary, presided. *** The Student's Chapter of Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) of K.L.N. College of Information Technology organised a national seminar on ‘Application of Software Technologies in Engineering Management.' B. Rajendran, Head, Department of Mathematics, Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi, spoke about the importance of mathematics in all branches of engineering. N. Ayyanathan, faculty advisor, welcomed the gathering. S. V. S. Shivnath, secretary, delivered the presidential address. M. Sachithanandam, Principal, delivered the valedictory address. J. S. Gnanasekaran, Vice-Principal, distributed certificates to the participants. M. P. Hari Priya proposed a vote of thanks. *** Five projects submitted by students of Vickram College of Engineering, Enathi, have been chosen by the ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu, for funding. The projects were among the 300 proposals submitted by students from all over the State. The selection was made on the basis of technical excellence and viability. The ICT Academy chose 29 projects for funding. *** The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering of Pandian Saraswathi Yadav Engineering College, Arasanoor, and ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu jointly organised a three-day faculty development programme on VLSI. It was inaugurated by K. Jayachandran, Relationship Manager, ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu. S. Pandian, chairman, presided. B. Ragav Srinivasan, Regional Manager, ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu, addressed the participants. P. Shankara Ramalingam, Principal, proposed a vote of thanks. A blood donation camp was organised jointly by the National Service Scheme units and Youth Red Cross of the college in association with Government Rajaji Hospital. It was inaugurated by P. Varadharajan. *** The Madurai Institute of Engineering and Technology, in association with Youth Red Cross Society, organised a sapling plantation programme. It was inaugurated by B. Chidambararajan, Principal. Youth Red Cross Society members of all departments planted saplings all over the campus. *** A workshop on Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) was conducted for assistant headmasters of southern districts at Kalasalingam University, Krishnankoil. Karunakaran, Director (RMSA), presided. V. Pandi, Chief Educational Officer, Virudhunagar, welcomed the gathering. S. Radhakrishnan, Vice-Chancellor, and T. Vasudevan, Registrar, addressed the participants. Karmegam, Joint Director, explained the objectives of the workshop. The scheme is introduced in 50 upgraded high schools of Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts. Mr. Karunakaran said that a sum of Rs 58.12 lakh had been allocated to 17 schools in Virudhunagar district. *** An essay writing competition and an aptitude test were conducted for students of Sri Vidya College of Engineering and Technology, to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The first three prizes in essay writing competition were awarded to G. Deepikalakshmi, N. Nandhini and C. Krishnakala. The college chairman, R. Thiruvengada Ramanuja Doss, presided. R. Daniel Rubaraj, Head, Department of English, welcomed the gathering. K. Muneeswaran, Head, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi, distributed prizes to the winners. The Principal, K. Ramar, addressed the students. K. Saravanan proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Department of Mathematics of Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi, conducted a faculty development programme in ‘Probability, Random Processes, Queuing Theory and Statistics.' It was inaugurated by T. Veerarajan, Dean, Velammal College of Engineering. B. Rajendran, Head, Department of Mathematics, welcomed the gathering. Twenty one faculty members from various colleges in Tamil Nadu participated in the two-day programme in which seven experts delivered lectures on various topics. Mike Hoskins, CTO, Pervasive Software, USA, delivered a lecture on ‘Innovations in Data Integration' at a meeting organised by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering for postgraduate students. K. Muneeswaran, Head, Department of Computer Science, welcomed the gathering. Mr. Hoskins explained various issues in searching large volume of data from real time applications. He covered areas like Big Data, Parallel Processing, Multicore Technologies and Data Rush. J. Rajasekar proposed a vote of thanks. *** A 10-day workshop on ‘Grammatical and literary commentaries of ancient Tamil' was conducted at Standard Fireworks Rajaratnam College for Women, Sivakasi, with the objective of promoting academic excellence among research scholars working on classical Tamil literature. E. Sundaramoorthy, former Vice-Chancellor, Tamil University, presided. D. Sasirekha, Principal, welcomed the gathering. G. Muthiah, Deputy Director, Tamil Development, delivered the inaugural address. G. Gnanasambanthan of Thiagarajar College, Madurai, spoke on the assistance rendered by the commentators in understanding classical literature. S. Thirugnanasampantan of Arasan College, Tiruvaiyaaru, enlightened the participants about the commentaries of Tolkappiam. P.N. Kamala, literary critic, brought out the critical aspects of Senavaraiyar. *** The Government Industrial Training Institutes of Veerakeralamputhur, Ambasamudram and Tenkasi jointly organised NSS camp at Poolaankulam in Tirunelveli district. During the seven-day camp, the students and ITI trainers planted saplings in the village. Awareness programmes were conducted for the villagers. They were oriented on protection of environment, hazards of using polythene products, ill-effects of tobacco, disaster management and AIDS. Moreover, the students and the trainers, who visited every house in the village, repaired televisions, radios, wet grinders, mixer grinders, ceiling fans, table fans, iron boxes, tube lights, DVD players etc. *** Compiled by Beryl Nesha and Pooja Venkatesh in Madurai and P. Sudhakar in Tirunelveli