WHAT DO WE HAVE HERE?: Visitors check out the products on display at the Arogya Expo 2010 in Bangalore on Thursday. — Photo: Bhagya Prakash K.    Ads after glitzy ad might hard-sell pills for cramps and shampoos for shiny mane. But it appears that humble herbs need no such pricey peddling, given the crowd at the Arogya Expo 2010. People came in their hundreds to check out green remedies that claimed to cure just about everything ranging from dandruff to indigestion to asthma to flagging libidos to, hold your breath, even cancer and AIDS! Slated to be the largest fair for complementary and alternative healthcare, the expo being held alongside the 4th World Ayurveda Congress, took off in the city on Thursday. The array is breathtaking: AYUSH pharma segment, practitioners and hospitals of all AYUSH systems, AYUSH-based service institutes and centres, research institutes and departments, laboratory equipment and machinery manufacturers, makers of hospital and surgical equipment, insurance companies, health tourism industry, herbal traders, and medicinal plant cultivators. A Lucknow company claimed to cure cancer and AIDS. For good measure, it had even displayed pots, ovens and other paraphernalia it claimed are used to make the herbal medicines. Special pavilions on vector-borne diseases control and reproductive and child health systems were also there. Attracting the crowd to their stalls were some firms which had displayed mannequins to demonstrate therapies such as ‘ panchakarma' and ‘shirodhara.' Face packs, shampoos, creams for cracked heels, pain balms, brahmi-based energising malts, herbal soaps, churnas and kashaya tablets. Herbal dietary supplements and even herbal, non-nicotine based smoking cessation aids and medicinal plants. You name it and they had it. While more than a third of the 300 stalls were from Kerala, most branded companies such as Himalaya, Shatayu, Baidyanath and Charak were there. Amidst these there were a few stalls put up by a range of   hakeems too. One such practitioner was seen convincing a customer to buy his product for rheumatoid arthritis. Spas and ashrams were there also with their products. It was amusing to see one of them having separate stalls for domestic and international customers. To provide information to practitioners about National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) for AYUSH hospitals and also showcase testing of ayurvedic drugs, the State AYUSH department had put up separate stalls at the expo. The expo also has free health check-ups, lectures and counselling by specialists of ayurveda, Unani, Homoeopathy, Siddha, Yoga and Naturopathy, Prakriti Pariksha and Nadi Pariksha. There were also demonstrations of home remedies for treatment of common ailments and live yoga demonstrations by experts. Medical Education Minister S.A. Ramdas, Kerala Health Minister P.K. Sreemathy along with Medical Education Secretary M.K. Shankarlinge Gowda and chairman of the Arogya Expo Ranjit Puranik were among those who inaugurated the exhibition on Thursday. The expo on till December 13 at Gayathri Vihar, Palace Grounds, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.