BODY'S DEFENCES:Some of the exhibits at an exhibition on the human immune system that will open at the Regional Science Centre and Planetarium in Kozhikode on Monday.    We know our immune system is working when we get better immediately after a bout of sickness, when cuts heal without getting infected or when we do not catch the same disease over and over again. But do we know how the wonder called the ‘Human Immune System' really functions? An exhibition developed by the National Council of Science Museums, under the Union Ministry of Culture, that will open for a month at the Regional Science Centre and Planetarium in Kozhikode on Monday can be of help. The exhibition titled ‘Our Bodyguards' will help one understand, in very simple ways, how the immune system works and does not work in the human body on different occasions. Layers of protection With the help of scientific models and specially designed equipment, it will explain the intricacies of the immune system. It will explain the layers of protection the immune system has, besides delineating the role of skin, glands, nose, mouth and eye in protecting the human body from external agents. The exhibition will educate the visitors on how our immune system responds to organ transplantation or blood transfusion. It will also throw light on the way how different immunity-related diseases such as AIDS, allergy and skin disorders attack the human body. ‘Our Bodyguard,' which started from New Delhi months ago, is a travelling show. With a wide range of exhibits, it helps the students' community and the common folk alike to understand how the wonderful system of cells, organs and chemicals works in harmony to keep the human body safe from invading microbes or how the complex defence mechanism of the body works on different occasions. The show will be open from 10.30 a.m. A. Pradeepkumar, MLA, will inaugurate the exhibition at the science centre. He will also inaugurate the renovated Life Science Corner on the centre campus. The Life Science Corner houses a variety of ornamental fishes, turtles, birds and marine life specimens, among other things. Jabir Mushthari