T oday is World Diabetes Day. This is the right moment to introspect about the challenges the medical fraternity and the society at large face due to this disorder. The UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon mentioned that “cancer, diabetes, and heart diseases hamper the people and the economies of the poorest population, even more than infectious diseases. It is therefore a public health emergency in slow motion.” An estimated 285 million people worldwide have diabetes, 70 per cent of whom live in low and middle income countries. This number will increase by 50 per cent if preventive strategies are not implemented. It is also important to note that about 132 million are in the most productive age group of 40-59 years. Early onset of the disease, its chronic nature and wide range of progressive complications compromise not only the quality of life but also shorten life expectancy. The iceberg phenomenon of the disease and healthcare seeking pattern of the people has left about one half of people with diabetes without being diagnosed. Even among the diagnosed blood sugar control is not satisfactory. So they are at high risk of developing complications related to diabetes. The economic costs of diabetes go beyond the costs that economies need to invest in diagnosis, care and prevention. They include loss of life, disability, the impact of quality of life, the economic impact that the disease has on individuals with diabetes and their families as well as lost economic growth. Data from the International Diabetes Federation estimate that it costs at least $376 billion to treat and prevent diabetes and its complications. By 2030, the cost is likely to exceed $490 billion. According to IDF task force on health economics, investment in diabetes care and prevention is lowest in the countries where it is needed the most. In India, with very limited medical insurance for diabetes, many meet their diabetes care expenses through their personal savings account and a combination of loans or selling assets like land and jewellery.  Another issue of concern is the low level of awareness about Diabetes Mellitus and its complications. Hence awareness and education programmes and health promotion strategies play a vital role in maintaining people's health and thus reducing the cost of treatment. Studies show that preventive methods like lifestyle modification and pharmacological therapy may reduce the risk for developing diabetes among the high risk groups, potentially reducing the cost of treatment.  Early detection and prompt treatment will also help to cut the cost burden. The life-threatening medical effects of diabetes can be prevented or delayed by inexpensive, off-patent pills to control blood sugar, blood pressure and bad cholesterol, by low-dose aspirin to reduce heart disease risk and by better diet and exercise.  Payment of bills through out-of-pocket expenses is very common in India. Hospital data shows that only a very small fraction of patients have insurance for diabetes. Diabetes patients from low income and even the middle income strata are involved in a huge debt trap leading to closed doors in all directions for financial aid.  Deduction under u/s 80DDB is available for expenses on treatment of diseases and ailments specified in Rule 11D of the Income Tax rules. Though some diseases like cancer, AIDS, chronic kidney failure are covered; but no deduction can be claimed for diabetes treatment. This may have been due to earlier ideas about effects and costs of diabetes. Now that diabetes has been identified as the number one non-communicable disease and we understand the heavy socio-economic cost, it is time for diabetes to be brought under section 80DDB. Governments, civil society and people with diabetes have to work together to ensure that accidents of geography and history do not determine who should live or die because of inadequate access to optimal care, treatment and essential medicines. The International Diabetes Federation is thus calling on the global community to fund essential diabetes medicines and technology and respond to requests from low middle income countries for support to strengthen their healthcare systems. Next year, the UN High-Level Summit on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) will be held in September. This will be our chance to demand answers and action on diabetes. Let's harness World Diabetes Day to show the world that neglect of diabetes is no longer an option, it is an outrage.  www.mvdiabetes.com