BEAUTY-BOUND: Ramya Rangacharya (left) and Malyada Govardhen. PHOTO: R. SHIVAJI RAO    M alyada Goverdhan and Ramya Rangacharya are crafting a unique textile heritage revival story by delving into the vastra kothri of the nearly 200-year old Shri Rangji Mandir, at Brindavan, near Mathura. The temple itself is unique in that it is the only one in North India dedicated to Andal and Vishnu or Goda Rajamannar. Malyada and Ramya are direct sixth generation descendants of Rangadeshik Swamiji, head of Govardhan Peeth, who had the temple built around 1830, by sthapatis and artisans specially brought from Srirangam. The stapathis amalgamated the South Indian style gopuram and five concentric rectangular enclosures around the sanctum with Jaipur style gateways, marble fountains in the temple garden (bageecha) etc. The festivals celebrated in Shri Rangji Mandir include Holi. The temple is specially revered as a symbol of fulfilment of Andal's wish expressed in ‘Nachiar Thirumozhi' that she spend her life at the feet of Lord Krishna in Brindavan. Young Malyada and Ramya were given charge of managing the vastra kothri, which houses all the saris, chunris, lehengas and other clothing offered to Andal, or Radha as she is known locally, by devotees form all over the country, as shringaar, ever since the inception of the mandir. Over the years the clothes had been carefully preserved at the vastra kothri, perhaps the only one of its kind in India, since such offerings of garments are traditionally, sold or given away by the temple authorities. For Malyada who holds a Masters in Business Administartion, and her sister Ramya, an ex-IAF officer, the vastra kothri opened up a cave of treasures -- incredible weaves and textiles, embroideries, forgotten craft skills and a wondrous collection of antique saris! Rummaging through it all proved an incredible journey of discovery, which led them to revive the knowledge of generations of master weavers and artisans. Their project took shape under the umbrella of their NGO, Hands of India, which works with rare craftsmen and artisans and helps the products reach the markets. An exhibition of Hands of India saris, yardage, made ups and handicrafts is on view at CP. Arts Centre, 1 Eldams Road, Alwarpert, till October 19.