Voluntary blood donation drive in the State got a big fillip when 345 students from the Marian Engineering College in the city came forward to donate blood in the mega voluntary blood donation camp organised on the college campus jointly by Kerala State AIDS Control Society, State Blood Transfusion Council, and HLL Lifecare Ltd., with the cooperation of college authorities on Wednesday. Officials of KSACS and HLL said they were enthused by the positive approach of the youth towards voluntary blood donation. “We have never had 345 students from a single institution voluntarily donating blood on the same day and it is a record of sorts in the State. We are very happy that our efforts to encourage youth to lead the way in voluntary blood donation is showing results,” one of the officials said. The camp had been organised as part of the National Voluntary Blood Donation Day observance. The camp was inaugurated by Metropolitan Bishop of Thiruvananthapuram M. Susaipakiam. Playback singer G. Venugopal and up and coming cine star Sarath were present on the occasion and the latter also donated blood . KSACS Project Director K. Shylaja and KSACS Deputy Director T.V. Velayudhan spoke on the occasion. The Hindustan Latex Family Planning Promotion Trust and the All Kerala Blood Donors' Society had been doing the preparatory work for the mega voluntary blood donation drive on the college campus for over a month, familiarising and educating students on the importance of voluntary blood donation and the need for the youth, as healthy young adults, to be at the forefront of this activity. The student donors were empanelled as per their age, weight and general health status. Majority of the donors were girls, the officials said. Major blood banks in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram including the ones at Sri Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Regional Cancer Centre, Medical College, District Hospitals and IMA participated in the programme. The last time that youth turned up in such large numbers for donating blood was on October 1, the National Blood Donation Day, when 302 students of Sri Vidya Engineering College at Thrissur voluntarily donated blood.