Students of Aalam Montessori House had a learning session at a neighbourhood departmental store and farm. (Right) Satchidananda Jothi Nikethan Matric Higher Secondary School celebrated Christmas to spread the message of love and tolerance.    Ksir's International School recently conducted a bird-watching programme for its students. Kalyani, a nature enthusiast, guided the students and spoke to them on environment. The team spotted 14 species of birds, according to a press release. N.M. Matriculation School recently celebrated ‘Colour Day'. Around 150 kindergarten students participated by dressing in pink. KV Matriculation school students recently visited a textile mill in Coimbatore. Resource persons from the mill guided the students to various departments and explained the various stages of production of yarn, a release said. Fourth and fifth standard students of SVGV School, Karamadai, visited “Anbu Illam”, a care centre, at Kinathukadavu. Students and staff interacted with the residents and gave them clothes, and food, which were collected by the students. Forty-two students of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Matriculation Higher Secondary School visited city police office as part of ‘A day with Commissioner of Police' programme. A release said the aim was to learn about the functioning of the police. Students visited the various departments and also interacted with City Police Commissioner C. Sylendra Babu. Vidya Vikasini Opportunity school recently celebrated ‘International Day of Persons with Disabilities.' A release said elocution, solo dance, memory test were held for the differently abled students. Shree Vishnu Vidyalayaa Matriculation School recently organised an eye camp. Medical personnel who screened the students, also suggested follow-up treatment for those with defects in vision. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vadavalli, in association with Siruthuli recently conducted a programme on how to protect the planet from pollution. National Model Secondary School recently held ‘Kids Carnival -2010'. G. Baradha of Avinashilingam Deemed University for Women, presided over the function. She also released Blossom, the school magazine, said a release from the institution. VAV School of Education recently conducted a class on fireless cooking. Teachers guided the children to clean, peel, cut and spread fruits and vegetables. The students also learned to prepare food with out gas stove and electrical appliances, said a release from the institution. Satchidananda Jothi Nikethan Matric. Hr. Sec. School recently celebrated Christmas to drive home the message of love and tolerance. A release said Sister Shalini, principal Vimal Jothi Convent Matric. Hr. Sec. School, Saravanampatti, was the chief guest. Students decorated the auditorium with Christmas tree, balloons, starts, etc. She urged the students to love one another and develop the tendency to tolerate differing views. Park Global School, Coimbatore, celebrated Christmas recently. A release said at a function organised in the school campus a Christmas tree was erected and decorated. Santa Claus distributed chocolates, sweets and gifts to students, who danced and sang. The chief executive officer also participated in the celebrations. Students of Aalam Montessori House recently were on a visit to a departmental store and farm on a learning trip. A release said the students recognised a few items. The teachers taught them the names of a few pulses. They were given a basket and encouraged to do their own shopping. At the farm they enjoyed the nature and recalled a rhyme they had learnt. The outing made learning more meaningful. S. Harikumar of Sri Kumaran Matriculation School, Chengapalli, represented the country in the Indo-Lanka Power-20 cricket championship held at Colombo for Under-20 boys. A release said that Harikumar was felicitated by the school management on his return from the winning the tournament. L.M. Matriculation School at S. Manthripalayam near Tirupur observed the World AIDS day on their premises recently. An awareness programme on HIV/AIDS in society and measures to control it was conducted. The event was aimed at telling the youth of the healthy life practices for wiping out HIV/AIDS from the society. An elocution competition for children too was organised. The Kids Club Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Tirupur, conducted an inter-school quiz competition for Tirupur schools in the memory of its founder and former MLA, Mohan Kandasamy, here recently. The event was held in two segments, one for students studying from Standard VI to VIII (category-1) and another for those in Standards IX and X (category-2). Under the category-1, Jaysees Matriculation HSS, Abacus International Montessori School and Kids Club Matriculation HSS walked away with the top three prizes. In the other segment, Vidhya Vikasini Matriculation HSS bagged the first place while Infant Jesus Matriculation HSS and Kids Club school secured the second and third places. The Veveaham Higher Secondary school, Dharapuram, observed the National Integration Week recently. A rally was taken out by the band troop of the school, Road Safety Patrol members and students of other schools to create an awareness among the public on the importance of remaining united for a 'strong India'. The Dharapuram Revenue Divisional Officer, Ali Akbar, flagged off the rally. The Frontline Higher Secondary School, Tirupur, donated Rs 1.15 lakh to the Help Age India, an organisation involved in social welfare activities. The amount was raised by the students. It was handed over to the Help Age India Executive Director Rasel Samson by the school correspondent, K. Sivasamy in the presence of Rotary Club of Tirupur members. Karthik Madhavan in Coimbatore and R. Vimal Kumar in Tirupur