Department of English of Government Arts College for Women, Salem, conducted a workshop recently.    Anna University-Madurai Vice-Chancellor R. Murugesan has called upon students to give more importance to research and development activities. Inaugurating the project exhibition organised by Excel Engineering College in Komarapalayam, the Vice-Chancellor said that the country would require innovative solutions to sustain its economic progress. Students should develop outside-the-box thinking and bring in more innovative technologies to fuel the growth of the nation. Students from various colleges displayed over 40 projects in the exhibition, organised by the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering of the college. College Chairman A.K. Natesan presided. Vice-Chairman Madhan Karthick and Principal R. Malathy also spoke. In another function, BSNL Deputy General Manager S.Gnanasambandan inaugurated the MCA students' association, while K. P. Ravichander from DMW Centre inaugurated the students' association of Department of Mechanical Engineering of Excel College of Engineering and Technology. An inter-collegiate basketball tournament for women was held at the JKKN College of Arts and Science, Komarapalayam. A team of students from AVS College of Arts and Science, Salem, beat the KSR College of Arts and Science team to win the championship. The JKKN team came third. College chairperson N. Sendamaraai gave away the prizes to the winners. The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) and Students' Forum of Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering of KSR College of Technology, Tiruchengode, conducted a lecture on job opportunities in the Information Technology sector. Project and Practice Head from Dell Perot Systems Vijay Venkatesh was the resource person. He highlighted the recent trends and developments in the IT sector and discussed various interview techniques. The college also organised a lecture on CDMA Technology. Professor from Pondicherry Engineering College P.Dananjayan was the resource person. The Women's Cell of Vellalar College for Women, Erode, was inaugurated recently. Former Professor Saraswathy Eswaran, inaugurating the cell, conducted a training programme on food processing. She trained 40 students on preparing mixed fruit jam, grape squash, coconut biscuit, sponge cake and chocolates. The objective of the training was to help students take up income generation activities in the food processing sector after their graduation. The college celebrated National Service Scheme Day on September 24. Legal Literacy and Legal Aid Clubs were inaugurated as part of the celebrations. The college also conducted a 10-day NSS special camp at Nasiyanur village, providing opportunities for the volunteers to take up community welfare activities. The Association of Civil Engineering and the Students' Chapter of Indian Concrete Institute (ICI) of M.P. Nachimuthu M. Jagannathan Engineering College, Chennimalai, conducted a technical symposium recently. Secretary General of Indian Concrete Institute, Chennai, R. Radhakrishnan, inaugurating the symposium, shared his experience in the construction industry and highlighted the recent developments. Principal in-charge S. Shanmugasundaram spoke. Director of CADD Centre, Chennai, K. Selvan delivered the valedictory address. The Department of Electronics and Communications Engineering and Medical Electronics Engineering of Sengunthar Engineering College, Tiruchengode, conducted technical symposiums. The events were organised to provide opportunities for the students to learn the latest developments in the areas of communication engineering and medical electronics. The Management Association of Surya Engineering College, Erode, was inaugurated recently. Entrepreneur Mohan V. Raman, inaugurating the association, delivered a lecture on leadership qualities. He also released the news letter of the Department of Management Studies. College Chairman A. Ramasamy presided. College Principal S. Vijayan also spoke. The SSM College of Engineering, Komarapalayam, organised a two-day conference on nanotechnology in association with iCanNano, a Kolkatta-based firm. The firm's Chief Executive Officer Arup Chatterjee inaugurated the conference and delivered a lecture on the importance of nanotechnology. He highlighted the application of nanotechnology in various fields including medicine, electronics, textile and food processing. The firm also entered into a memorandum of understanding with the college to carry out research and development activities in nanotechnology. In another function, the students' association of Department of Mechanical Engineering was inaugurated. The Department of Information Technology, Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai, conducted a two-day seminar on research issues in wireless networks recently. College correspondent R.K. Viswanathan, inaugurating the seminar, spoke on the emergence of wireless networks in the world. KVIT president M. Murugesan presided. A total of 60 faculty members and students of various engineering colleges attended the seminar. The Cognizant Technology Solutions conducted campus recruitment at the Kongu Arts and Science College, Erode, recently. Over 1,000 students from Erode, Tiruppur, Karur and Namakkal districts participated in the selection process. The event was organised to recruit candidates for various positions in the Information Technology Enabled Services area. A total of 27 candidates emerged successful and received their appointment orders. College correspondent A. Venkatachalam congratulated the selected students. The college also celebrated the NSS day recently. Competitions such as essay writing, cross word and word formation were conducted for the students. K. Manimegalai, first year BCA student from Bharathidasan College of Arts and Science, Erode, won first prize in the oratorical competition conducted by the Forest Department as part of the Wildlife Week Celebrations. Another student K. Varnampikai of BA English Literature won third prize in the drawing event. College chairman NKK Periyasamy congratulated the winners. The college also conducted an awareness programme on AIDS. The Red Ribbon Club of the college was also inaugurated during the programme. The Erode Sengunthar Engineering College organised a mega blood donation camp as part of the 67th birthday celebrations of its founder J. Sudhanandhen. Students and faculty members of the college donated 209 units of blood during the camp. Correspondent Vasantha Sudhanandhen presided over the celebrations. A sapling plantation programme was also organised in the college. Principal Arun V. Parwate spoke. The English Department of Government Arts College for Women, Salem, conducted a workshop on English – the need of the hour and an inter-collegiate competition. Principal In-Charge S. Lalitha presided over the function. J. Jayaseelan, Retired professor of Salem Sowdeshwari College, conducted the workshop focusing on the importance and advantages of successful communication skills. Students from English Literature enacted Shakespeare plays. At the competition, Vysya College, Sowdeshwari College and Government Arts College for Women won first, second and third prizes respectively. C. Indira, Head of English Department, welcomed. The Department of Microbiology of Selvam Arts and Science College, Namakkal, organised a special lecture on Bioprospecting of Actinomycetes for Novel Bioactive Compounds. R. Balagurunathan of Salem Periyar University spoke on the subject. Principal K.S. Arulsamy presided. More than 2,250 students took part in the programme. Dr. Y. Jagannatha Rao, Honorary Registrar, Indian Institute of Chemical Engineering, Kolkatta, inaugurated a two-day technical symposium at Adhyamaan College of Engineering, Hosur, recently. The symposium was organised by the Students' Chapter of the Indian Institute of Chemical Engineering. In his inaugural address, Dr. Jagannatha Rao dealt in length about various opportunities available in the field of chemical engineering. He stressed that the students should make use of the opportunities brought by the management. Students from various colleges in the State and from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh attended. Principal G. Ranganath presided. N. Balasubramanian, Dean (Autonomous), welcomed the gathering. Adhyamaan College of Engineering, Hosur, bagged the overall championship in the inter-zone athletics competitions held at the Jayam College of Engineering, Nallanur, in Dharmapuri district. In the men's events, the overall championship was bagged by the Adhyamaan College of Engineering. Selvam College of Engineering, Namakkal, bagged the second prize. In the women's events, Selvam College of Engineering, Namakkal, stood first and the second prize went to Kongu Engineering College, Erode. The first two teams in the inter-zone athletics competitions will take part in the national level meet between the universities in November. M. Ramesh, Chairman, Jayam College of Engineering and Technology, gave away the trophies to the winning teams. S. Ramesh in Erode, Special Correspondent in Salem & R. Arivanantham in Krishnagiri