COMMITTED Sudeep: 'I wouldn't even have a cup of coffee if I didn't think I would cherish it'   | Photo Credit:  S. SHIVA KUMAR Sudeep has stayed on in the film industry for 16 years. Cinema, he says, is his passion, and every little detail is important to him. Most industry people who've visited your office say you should follow what's mentioned outside. Why are you considered egotistical? I somehow knew you would mention this. You should ask the people who told you. People come here to discuss projects. If you come with an ego there'll be no clarity. Some people come here feeling how can this guy dictate terms? What does he know? I feel we should have an open discussion. Before I put it up if I rejected a project they'd feel insulted. At the end of the day it's creativity and business. I never take a decision without discussion. Name one person who doesn't have an ego. Every person carries an attitude, positive or negative. You used to rush and buy remake rights of hits. I first bought 'Vaali' which I loved. Then I bought 'Swathi Muthyam'. I had won two Filmfare awards and wanted a third in consecutive years. The third was 'Autograph' and I think the whole State loves the film. Then there was 'Sarkar' because I felt the role suited Vishnu Sir and I desperately wanted to make a film with him. You will agree that none of these films are 'run of the mill'. I've crafted my career. Everyone thought I'd gone insane but today I'm not bound by any image. I knew I'd be here for a long time. I ran behind content, not remakes. Without taking away any credit, the basic premise and the entire climax of 'JMM' is based on 'Anbe Sivam'. I've not watched that film. I would have admitted if I had. I started to write because someone said it was the most difficult thing. It disturbed me when I initially failed. So at 3 a.m. I wrote the climax of 'JMM' and loved it. I wrote the script in reverse order. I don't watch too many films and the ones I watch are foreign language. Many thought the film is a remake of 'Jab We Met' but were proved wrong. The narrative is unhurried. Is it intentional? Without the co-passenger character my narrative becomes pathetic. He asks all the questions I anticipate from the audience. Without that it would have been a boring film. You can see your reaction in his expression. I've let the emotions seep into the audience. One can see that every scene has been executed with care and passion. Is there an autobiographical element to it? I wouldn't even have a cup of coffee if I don't think I wouldn't cherish it. That's why I have done very few films in 16 years. I'm not a 'one night stand' guy. Cinema is my passion. Every little detail is crafted and it shows. You've not answered my question. Well the scene where the hero gets a letter and he doesn't open it has happened. It's the fear of rejection that made me leave the letter unopened. I'll treasure it and open it when I've outgrown the affair. Certain situations and scenes are very close to my life. The scene where I use a remote happens to everyone. We all want to rewind and be given a second chance. I also have the habit of cracking a joke when I'm sad. There's a feeling that Ramya is absent in the second half because of your spat. That's not true. She was never there in the second half which is about my search for her. I never let up on the curiosity level. I wanted the audience to see her only when I did. Nothing is above the script, even Sudeep. I wanted the audience to fall for her in the first half and pine for her like I did. You have this image of being aloof, not being in places where the industry gathers. Basically I'm aloof. I'm not very social too. I've worked very hard for what I've achieved and want to cling to it because only I know its value. If I feel I'm required and wanted I'll go. I've never felt that way till now. I've never felt wanted here. There are others like me who feel the same but unfortunately they've compromised. You need not have to belong to a film family to be appreciated. My connection is only with my audience and the media and I'm answerable only to them. I don't sit and wait for creative miracles. I create them. They haven't made me feel loved even for a single day. Is this one of the reasons you got close to Vishnuvardhan? That he too had a similar feeling? I've heard about his struggle. I didn't meet him frequently but cherish the moments I spent with him. There was a dignity about him. The way he carried himself is a lesson for youngsters without godfathers. My real icons are Vishnu and Shankar Nag. You are right Vishnu Sir too never felt wanted. He was respected only after the demise of a couple of others. What next? Nothing. I haven't slept for months together so I'm relaxing. I want to look fresh for my future projects.