WARM UP ANOTHER's LIFE Festival is beyond mere fun and festivity PHOTO: AFP    Y es, this is the merry season — there's rum-soaked cake, the good red-stuff in the green bottles, Christmas bazaars and discount sales everywhere you look. And while many a natty youngster spends this time of the year drowning in the flavours of this happy time, it was with a small bolt to my rather quietened conscience that I came to see, hear and witness youngsters in and around our neighbourhood and city doing more than just that. With heads firmly on their shoulders and feet firmly planted on the ground, there are many of these little clusters and groups of energetic young lads and lasses going about doing their little bit — bringing a smile on the face of a little child in a destitute home or getting a warm hug from an old abandoned grandmother at an old age home after listening without interruption, to her long story. These young kids as part of colleges or church parishes and neighbourhoods take time out from their partying and dancing to organise charity events and musical nights or collect old newspapers and clothes from friends and neighbours, to raise the funds necessary for donation as they visit various charitable trusts and homes – ranging from homes for mentally and physically handicapped children, homes which house people with AIDS and HIV, orphanages, old age homes and centres for abandoned babies. “I find that these days the youth are so much more aware and enthusiastic in doing their bit and the Christmas season just gives them a good excuse for it!” says Isabel Paul , who headed the Youth Group of the Resurrection Church Parish at Indiranagar for the last four years. The group which does ‘out-reach' programmes during the Christmas season has been to various homes over the years, such as Asha Jyoti – a home for retarded children (in Koramangala), “Home for Leprosy” patients (in Somanahalli) and “Snehadaan” (on Sarjapur Road) which is a place for AIDS and HIV patients. She says: “Each visit comes with a unique set of soul stirring and diverse experiences – for many youngsters in the group, it was the first time they were interacting with mentally challenged people and witnessing first-hand the frustration of someone who is unable to co-ordinate his body or convey what's on their mind. They held a tiny abandoned babies in their arms, fed them, got them to burp…, it gives all these young people an enormous amount of satisfaction.” Says Aleksandra Amaladass who is part of the Christian Students Association of St. Joseph's College of Arts and Science: “Our annual musical concert during Christmas time is called ‘Humanitas' and this year's fund raising is for the Mother Teresa's home in Bangalore. Every year once the fund raising event is through, our group visits these old age homes, orphanages or colonies — usually with provisions, toiletries or clothes, and we spend time doing skits, singing with them or talking and listening to them.” About the personal interaction with the inmates of such homes she says — “You really cannot describe the touching experience when you spend time with these people – they are all human, just like all of us, most of them long for company and ever so often request our group to please go back and visit them. She adds: “Some of my friends even go back individually or as smaller groups later to such places regularly after that.” “The ‘Pallotine Youth for Jesus' does an annual Christmas musical night called ‘Noel' as a fund raiser for various destitute homes,” says Amith Mathew, a member of the group. With last year's proceeds we bought provisions and beds for the inmates of the ‘Home of Hope', run by ‘Auto-Raja' and our group went there and sang carols and interacted with the inmates. To witness how people in the same city as us live, is a truly moving experience, even disturbing at times, but it touches a chord because these are things we will never see in our otherwise cocooned lives.” Its thumbs up to these young unassuming heroes (and heroines) in our city - who are simply living the spirit of the season in its truest form.