Find yourself reaching the city in the middle of the night? Or did an emergency situation crop up and you have to leave the city at an unearthly hour? However pressing the situation may be, don't throw caution to the wind and flag down any passing vehicle for a lift. That could lead you to bigger trouble. Muggings galore Despite midnight muggings being regularly reported in the media, both the Bangalore city police and the Bangalore Rural police have not been able to stem the spate of robberies in their jurisdiction. Stories abound of gullible people accepting lifts on ring roads, highways and on the outskirts of the city, only to lose their valuables, or worse, their lives. Sources in the State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB) said 110 people, particularly those who were waiting for public transport, were attacked and robbed of their valuables on ring roads and highways in 2010. In most cases, the victims accepted lifts from the robbers, though in some cases they were pedestrians who were chased down and robbed. About 60 per cent of such robberies were committed by car-borne miscreants while another 30 per cent of the attackers came in autorickshaws. The remaining were either motorcycle riders or those who stalked their victims on foot. The police say they are doing their best. “We have already arrested many persons in this regard. We are also closely monitoring the movements of cab drivers who are found suspiciously moving around the city,” said an officer. Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials told   at least 90 cellphones, belonging to several habitual offenders released on bail, were under surveillance. After the recent attack on three persons on Tumkur Road, the Rural police announced stepped up night patrolling on Tumkur Road and in the vicinity of Nelamangala, Kunigal and Dobbspet. Recently they arrested 10 men, said to be hardcore criminals, in connection with several robberies and seized valuables worth Rs. 14 lakh from them. Investigation revealed that the gang used to rob pedestrians and people waiting for public transport. To add insult to injury, it would strip the victims to ensure they would not give chase or go to the police immediately, thereby facilitating the gang's speedy escape. Shivarudra (name changed on victim's request), a finance company employee, narrated his bad experience on Kunigal Road to  . Mr. Shivarudra, after meeting a client in Chitradurga six days ago, got off the KSRTC bus at Nelamangala and was waiting for a local bus to go home. Several cars stopped to ask if he wanted a lift and on enquiring, one of them was apparently bound for his neighbourhood. He accepted the offer, happy to be reaching home soon than he reckoned. However, after a while, the occupants of the car attacked him, robbed him of his valuables, stripped him and kicked him out of the vehicle. The Nelamangala police are investigating this case. M.T. SHIVA KUMAR