Orientation:A seminar on ‘Gateway to IT Industry' held at M.I.E.T. Arts and Science College. (Left)    The ‘Mighty Web' club of MIET College of Arts and Science recently organised a special meeting on ‘Gateway to IT Industry'. Bhavani, HR manager of a IT company, was the resource person. She gave tips to the students about facing the interviews, group discussion, etc. P.M. Mansure, Principal, inaugurated the meeting. J. Anthony Raj, Head of the Department of Computer Science, and others spoke. *** A special meeting on improving life skills was conducted by Dhanam Xavier, Associate Professor of English, Periyar EVR College at National College Hostel recently. She emphasised that self-confidence was very important for achieving success. K. Kumar, warden of National College Hostel, presided. *** The Jayaram College of Engineering and Technology at Pagalavadi-Karattampatti in Tiruchi district, recently celebrated its 16th College Day. A. K. Pattabiraman, Head, Accreditation Process for South India, Tata Consultancy Services, was the chief guest. He distributed prizes to Suryaprakash and Kayalvizhi, the two best outgoing students and also to Lavanya who secured cent per cent attendance. M. Subramaniam, college chairman, presided, Nirmala Subramaniam, founder of GRD Trust, N. Kannan, Principal of the college and others spoke. *** The Department of English of K. Ramakrishnan College of Engineering, recently organised a special meeting on ‘interpersonal skills' for the first-year students. Rajadrai Samuel, Project Manager of Ecare Solutions, Chennai, delivered a special lecture, explained about the nuances of values and personal excellence. U.S. Sarvadayaparan, Director of the college, Ebinazer Kadatcham, Professor, MBA Department, A. Vennila, Head of the Department of English spoke. *** The Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute at Kumulur in Tiruchi district celebrated Hostel Day recently. C. T. Devadas, Director, School of Biotechnology, Karunya University, Coimbatore, was the chief guest. A. Tajuddin, Dean of the college, listed out the achievements of the students in the campus interview during the current year. J. Karamathullah, hostel warden, M. C. Subangi, deputy warden, and others spoke. *** The Cauvery College for Women recently celebrated the 26th College Day. P.S. Mani Sundaram, the first Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University, was the chief guest. Prof. Mani Sundaram distributed prizes to the students who won several events. M. Jayaraman and K. Rengarajan, president and secretary respectively of the college governing council, V. Sujatha, Principal and others spoke. *** The Department of Bank Management of Urumu Dhanalakshmi College celebrated ‘Bankfest 2010.' K. Sekar, Principal, G. Varadarajulu, president, N. Subramani, Head of the Department of Bank Management, and others spoke. A quiz programme was held on the occasion and S. M. Suriyakumar was the quiz master. The students enthusiastically participated in different cultural events. ‘Tiruchi' N. Siva, MP, was the chief guest at the valediction. He advised the students to aim high and contribute to the development of the nation. *** The Red Ribbon Club of Kurinji College of Arts and Science organised an AIDS awareness programme recently. A. K. K. Ravichandran, vice-president of the college, inaugurated the programme. R. Jasariya Mary, district secretary of the Red Ribbon Club, gave away prizes to the winners. R. Lakshmankumar of Primary Health Centre, Pudur Uthamanur and others spoke. P. Muruganantham, Principal in-charge, offered felicitations. *** The valediction of the Communication Club of St. Joseph's College (Shift-II) was recently organised. G. Raveendhiran, Professor and Head of the Department of English, who delivered a lecture on ‘Are leaders born or made?' dwelt at length on the qualities of a leader viz. self-esteem, positive thinking, presence of mind, encouraging others and assertive nature. Rev. Dr. Sebastian Anand, Deputy Principal, who presided over the function, exhorted the students to be leaders in their own way bet it academic, sports or extra-curricular activities. *** The Electronics and Communication Engineering Association of J.J. College of Engineering and Technology, recently organised a national-level symposium which was attended by students from about 50 colleges. Srinivasan, Assistant Station Director of All India Radio, Tiruchi, who was the chief guest, stressed the importance of effective communication for the students of professional courses. Shanmuganathan, Director, Sivaramakrishnan, Principal, B. Elizabeth Caroline, Professor and Head of the Department of ECE and others spoke. The overall trophy was won by Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai. *** The NSS unit of Periyar College of Pharmaceutical Sciences for Girls in association with Periyar Free Clinic and Friends Ladies Club, recently organised a blood donation camp. R. Senthamarai, Principal of the college, inaugurated the camp by donating blood. G.Sebastian, college correspondent, A. M. Ismail, Vice-Principal and others spoke. More than 50 persons including faculty members and students donated blood. *** The Nehru Memorial College at Puthanampatti organised a special meeting, when T. M. Alagiri Swamy Raju, Project Director of Anna Science Centre-Planetarium, spoke about science and technology and also the latest discoveries in the space science. K.Ramasami, Principal, who presided over the meeting, explained the objectives of the meeting. *** The M.A.M. College of Engineering at Siruganur, recently provided computer training for the teachers of Government and Government-aided schools who are teaching computer science subject for XI and X Standards. M.A. Maluk Mohamed, Principal of the college who inaugurated the training programme, stressed on the importance and usage of computers. He said that the training was given for five days for the teachers in Lalgudi area in Tiruchi district under the ‘Rashtriya Maathyamith Siksha Abhiyan' scheme of the Centre. MS office and special training for using internet was also given. K. Swaminatha, Chief Educational Officer, Tiruchi, delivered the valedictory address. *** The Department of Economics of Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College in Tiruchi, recently organised a one-day workshop on ‘employability skills.' S. Iyyampillai, Director, Centre for Youth, Development and Studies, was the resource person. G. Kalyani, Principal of the college, inaugurated the workshop. COMPILED BY K. SUBRAMANIAN AND SYED MUTHAHAR SAQAF