Press notes are often a source of humour in newsrooms, sometimes for their unintentionally funny spelling and at other times for their random story pitches. This press invite from a leading technology community contained an odd, very unusual sentence, one that generated much laughter among journalists covering the event. It solicited “bids” for an interview of a visiting dignitary. The unusual choice of word, a word often used in auctions and sundry scams where bets are placed, proved to be a nice “byte” of humour at the otherwise drab technology-business event. The Public Relations Office of the Bangalore City Police Department, headed by an officer of the rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police, and equipped with a set of infrastructure such as photocopying machine, scanner, printer, telephone, should have ideally been an interface between the police and crime reporters. But the scribes rarely receive any “tip-off” from the PR section about major crime incidents. Instead, only press statements pertaining to the Police Department's “achievements” such as “arrests and recoveries” are issued. Recently, a TV channel had interviewed City Police Commissioner Shankar M. Bidari. The PRO section sent SMSes to the crime reporters to watch the interview. Not once but more than eight times. Sources in the department said police officials got similar overdoses. In the midst of the raging controversy over the land scams rocking the State, a close aide of Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa found himself at a loss to explain why he could not substantiate certain charges of land grabbing he had levelled against the Janata Dal(S) leaders. While he was holding a media conference on Tuesday, the Chief Minister's political secretary, B.J. Puttaswamy, paid a backhanded compliment to the Janata Dal(S) leaders for allegedly grabbing land without leaving any visible trace either by means of documents or land records. After claiming that the records of the alleged instances of land grabbing were not found in the sub-registrar's office, Mr. Puttaswamy remarked: “Our Chief Minister has much to learn from them.” DEEPA KURUP, M.T. SHIVA KUMAR AND NAGESH PRABHU