Staff Reporter BERHAMPUR: Efforts are on to extend the reach of the message of Red Ribbon express to at least 2,800 villages of Ganjam district, the most HIV prone area of Orissa. The Red Ribbon Express is in Orissa since Sunday. After spending two days at Rayagada railway station, it is now at Koraput station. From there it would travel to Berhampur on May 6, to promote HIV awareness in Ganjam district. The health officials, administration, Orissa State AIDS Control Society (OSACS), the NGOs involved in AIDS awareness work and rehabilitation of HIV positive persons are now busy taking up measure so that the message of Red Ribbon Express parked at Berhampur station could reach to the people living in remote HIV prone areas. It may be noted that the migrant labourers of rural Ganjam are most prone to HIV infection. Chief District Medical Officer (CDMO) Ratnakar Behera said Gaon Kalyan Samities (GKS) in Ganjam district would be utilised for the purpose. The GKS in villages are usually utilised to spread health education in rural areas. Each GKS would be funded to send a team of five members to the Red Ribbon Express parked at Berhampur station. This team would include the local Anganwadi worker, Asha volunteer and elected ward member. The GKS bodies have been directed by the administration to spend money for the purpose from their annual allocation. After returning back to their villages they would hold consciousness building meeting at the village regarding what they learnt from their visit to the Red Ribbon Express. By this process around 14,000 key rural peer groups would be made conscious about the message of the Red Ribbon Express and the message would percolate to the grass root, said Lokanath Mishra, regional coordinator of the OSACS. Out of these visiting GKS members 120 would be selected to be provided special training regarding HIV, AIDS and their prevention. It may be noted that Red Ribbon Express is a multi-media, multi-faculty mass mobilisation project to spread awareness on HIV/AIDS, promotion of safe behavioural practices through a train. It was flagged off on World AIDS Day on Dec 1, 2009 from New Delhi by UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi. During its proposed year long journey, the Red Ribbon Express will cover 152 railway stations in 22 states. It would travel in Orissa for 21 days and halt at nine stations.