The National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) has begun an investigation into the ‘disappearance' of at least four athletes from the NIS, Patiala, during an out-of-competition testing routine ordered by it last July. “We were told by the Chief Coach in writing that a few athletes were training abroad and a few others were on leave,” said the NADA Director-General, Rahul Bhatnagar, on Thursday about the incident that has once again raised doubts about rampant doping in Indian athletics, with the Commonwealth Games just round the corner. “We have asked SAI (Sports Authority of India) to investigate whether this is true. If we can establish that they were bluffing then we can ask these athletes to be removed from the camp,” said Bhatnagar. He did not say whether he would recommend their removal from the Indian team also. According to some of the athletes at the NIS, at least one of these athletes was asked to stay away from the camp when the matter was brought to the notice of the NIS authorities last month. However, coaches stated that there was no “official suspension”. He subsequently competed in the inter-State meet and won his event. The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has no official intimation from the NADA about the incident. “Disappearing athletes” at the time of surprise out-of-competition testing by any authority is nothing new in Indian athletics or for the NIS, Patiala. In January 2006, a batch of 40 Indian athletes had fled Potchefstroom, South Africa, 10 days ahead of schedule, when confronted by a team of testers from the South African Institute for Drug-Free Sport (SAIDS). Dope Control teams from the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) came several times to Patiala after that in pursuit of the Indian athletes and there was at least one instance when the athletes, training at the NIS ground, got wind of the testers and left one by one before the testers could confront them. The AFI set up an enquiry commission to probe the case of “missing athletes”, but nothing eventually came of it. The one-man panel of lawyer Sushil Salwan did demand medical records to prove athletes' arguments that some member or the other of their families was ill, necessitating their absence from the camp when athletes actually left the camp apparently wary of further testing attempts. No one knows whether such medical records were ever submitted. The IAAF carried out 41 tests on Indian athletes that year and followed up with 20 in 2007. No ‘positive' test was reported. Its interest and focus apparently waned subsequently since 2008 saw not a single out-of-competition test by it on an Indian. In 2009, only discus thrower Krishna Poonia was tested by the international federation. “Evading” testers is a serious offence that can be taken up to impose a disciplinary sanction against the athlete. Proving that charge, however, will become difficult when the Chief Coach (as in this case) confirms that the athlete or athletes had taken permission to go on leave. Among the anti-doping rule violations in the WADA Code, Article 2.3 says: “Refusing or failing without compelling justification to submit to sample collection after notification as authorised in applicable anti-doping rules, or otherwise evading sample collection.” The last part is important here, “otherwise evading sample collection” if this can be established. For, in the comment to this article, WADA has explained that it would be an anti-doping rule violation if it were established that an athlete was hiding from a Doping Control official to evade notification or testing. “Hide and seek” is a game routinely played in training camps in India, especially in athletics, when dope-testers spring surprises. How far NADA can be successful in its current “investigations” will give an indication about whether it can actually practise what it preaches: Zero tolerance towards doping.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 11:46:38 AM | http://www.thehindu.com/sport/athletics/NADA-investigates-lsquodisappearance-of-athletes/article16145917.ece   © The Hindu 