Several groups of students from a few degree colleges in Bellary had a face-to-face interaction on Thursday with (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) HIV positive people. The interactive session was organised jointly by the Centre for Advocacy and Research, which is committed to advocacy on the rights of marginalised population, and the Bellary District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU). The interaction was aimed at creating awareness about HIV/AIDS and communicating to the youth the need to stop discrimination against HIV positive people. The participants comprised students pursuing Masters in Social Work. They said that they were moved by the life experiences of HIV positive people. The students got to understand the woes and the plight of HIV patients. The participants cheered when HIV positive people explained that people living with HIV could also lead a normal life undeterred by the stigma and discrimination. They added that it was possible because of the support of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) like Nityajeevana, a network for HIV positive people, and other facilities provided by the Government. “I was shocked to know that I was HIV positive. But more shocking was the discrimination I had to face within the family. But for the support of my mother and also the care and support extended by Freedom Foundation, an NGO, I would not have been alive. After my contact with Nityajeevana, which helped me to get ART (Anti-Retroviral Therapy) treatment at government hospital, I became more confident that I can lead life the normal way. Now I have started helping people with HIV get ART treatment. I try to make them understand that if they take proper treatment, they can also lead a normal life like others”, Basha from Hospet city said. Bibi Zohra, a widow of a driver, who is HIV positive, said that she was determined to lead a normal life come what may. That is why she was able to earn her livelihood and take care of her children. Dr. Narasimhamurthy of the DAPCU spoke on the steps taken to control and prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. He said that several measures had been initiated to create awareness on HIV/AIDS so that society does not discriminate against HIV/AIDS patients. He told the students at the interactive session that they should try to gain more knowledge about the issue and actively participate in the programmes organised to create awareness in society.