The story, in visual form, of a sustained campaign by a legal luminary against the corrosive effects of tobacco is ready for release. ‘Battling the Epidemic,' a 26-minute documentary produced in electronic formats under the banner of Anti-Smoking Society at Qatar, maps the movement led by K. Narayana Kurup, former Acting Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, against the tobacco menace. The path-breaking verdict a Bench of the Kerala High Court, of which he was a member, gave in 1999 banning smoking in public places had wide impact. Mr. Kurup's nearly two-decade-long struggle against tobacco has since crossed national boundaries. “One billion people will die due to tobacco in the 21st century compared to 100 million deaths during 20th century. In India, one million people die every year, which is more than the number of deaths in motor accidents, AIDS, alcohol and drug abuse put together,” Mr. Kurup told   here, conviction ringing in his voice. Stating that his journey carrying the message of ‘Say No to Tobacco' had covered more than 33 million people of Kerala and a substantial population elsewhere in the country and abroad, Mr. Kurup said he had utilised every opportunity that came his way during his public life to intensify the anti-tobacco campaign. The documentary captures varied facets of the tenacious campaigner in him in sharp relief. Often known as the ‘patron of the non-smoker' and as a ‘medical judge,' Mr. Kurup has made it a point to administer a pledge against tobacco at every public meeting he has addressed over the last two decades. The documentary pictures thousands of students voicing their support for the campaign. Led by the Justice K.N. Kurup Anti-Tobacco Foundation, the campaign has extensively explored the advantages of the mass communication network in the country to spread the message, including jingles on radio. Door-to-door visits and a sticker campaign urging the youth to join in the struggle have also been part of the movement. “Token condemnation of tobacco-use at seminars and gatherings, or getting philanthropists to pump in money will not do. The need of the hour is a concerted, purposeful and sustained campaign with a clear message against tobacco, using a variety of public forums,” he said. An honorary fellow of the International Medical Sciences Academy, Mr. Kurup is now set to step up his campaign. “If philanthropists can make available vehicles, equipment and other gadgets to spread the anti-tobacco message across the country, I'm ready to travel across States and Union Territories,” he said. He could be reached at justiceknkurup@gmail.com  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 12:52:33 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Documentary-to-aid-anti-tobacco-campaign-ready/article15913495.ece   © The Hindu 