Deepa Mohan Healthcare management courses offer an in-depth study of the entire working of the healthcare industry. This involves the knowledge to manage and maintain institutions such as medical colleges, hospitals, pharmacy colleges, research institutions and regulatory bodies. Healthcare involves the interaction of government, public and private institutions coming together for the welfare of the community and people at large. It calls for a wider knowledge to deal at times with large scale rehabilitation of people during disasters, formulating of policies for people with different disabilities and implement programmes for welfare of women, children and the elderly. Implications Today even a country like the United States is facing problems in offering healthcare services to a large chunk of population at an affordable cost. Healthcare professionals have to understand implications like medico- legal problems in relation to health administration, law of contracts, medical jurisprudence and Consumer Protection Act. Professionals need to be aware of concept of health, disease and well being, various levels of care, prevention aspect of diseases, dynamics of disease transmission (AIDS. H1N1, mad cow disease, malaria, leprosy, malnutrition), changing pattern of diseases, Health scenario of India- past, present and future, national health policy & population policy, inter-sectoral co-ordination, national health programme, healthcare delivery system in India at primary, secondary and tertiary care. Healthcare management course provide students an opportunity to develop knowledge in these areas. Hospital administration deals with management of services in a particular hospital with a given number of beds and services. Many universities now offer courses which combine subjects that are in the realm of the two areas. Institute of Clinical Research, India which has campuses at Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Kochi, Hyderabad and Bangalore offers a two-year fulltime MBA in Healthcare Management. It also offers a offers a one-year part-time PG Diploma in Healthcare Management. Eligibility: Students from Science stream preferred. Admission is based on performance at entrance examination and interview. For details, log on to www.icriindia.com Deccan School of Management's Department of Hospital Management offers MBA in Hospital Management. It is affiliated to Osmania University and recognised by AICTE. Eligibility Any graduate from a recognised university with a minimum of 50 per cent marks. Admission is through entrance exam conducted by Osmania University and interview. For details visit www.dshm.co.in Apollo Institute of Hospital Administration offers Master of Hospital Management (MHM). The eligibility criterion is graduation in any discipline with minimum 50 per cent marks. Admission is based on performance at entrance exam, GD and PI conducted by Osmania University. The course duration is two and half yeas which includes internship of six months. For details visit www.apolloiha.ac.in Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad offers two-year residential full time Post Graduate Diploma in Hospital Management. The four semester programme comprises three semesters of residential training and one semester of internship. Graduates from any discipline, with a minimum 50 per cent aggregate at graduation, are eligible for admissions. Candidates with a medical (MBBS, dental, physiotherapy, AYUSH) or life-sciences (including pharma) background are encouraged to apply. Admission is based on performance at entrance examination conducted by the institute. Valid score in CAT, MAT, ICET and Common Entrance Examination held by Osmania University for MHM programme is also accepted. For details visit www.asci.org.in/ pgd_hospital.asp T. Muralidharan TMI Network (queries for the column can be sent to collegian@thehindu.co.in)