With Mysskin Bala (left) was a surprise guest    The who's who of film industry turned up for the muhurath of Mysskin's new film, Yuddham Sei Only an emergency or the lure of lucre could force anyone to go to Chennai in April. For me it was the menacing tone of my friend, the maverick moviemaker Mysskin that made me seek the next available mode of transport. It was for the ‘muhurath' of his next venture, “Yuddham Sei” starring Cheran. The title and a short teaser trailer already have the trade tattling. The simple puja conducted at dawn was attended by the cast, crew and the producers. Mysskin had told his friends to drop in at their convenience. A steady stream started after breakfast. There is an emerging crop of fresh, young filmmakers who are passionate, bursting with ideas and daring to turn them into celluloid. The most important thing is they are thick as thieves, interact often and cherish each other's success. “When I watch a brilliant shot taken by a colleague I preen because I think its mine,” says Mysskin who's taken the initiative to conduct monthly forums. The garrulous, seemingly inseparable pair, Sasikumar and Samudhrakani were early visitors. Nirav Shah dropped in on the way to catch a flight, while P.C. Sreeram who loved Mysskin's “Nandalala” made it a point to drop by. The finicky Sreeram wants to work with Mysskin. The reticent Bala was a surprise guest. A visibly thrilled Mysskin went into a tizzy when Bala hugged him and had tears in his eyes after watching the trailer of “Nandalala”. There was the talented Vetrimaran who entered into a lengthy, animated discussion with Mysskin about their favourite book, “The Wolf Totem”. The last to drop by was Balaji Shakthivel (“Kaadhal”) after which it was party time. Mysskin's gaggle of enthusiastic understudies who are treated like family danced till they dropped. “If you want to make God laugh make plans” is a simple but profound Yiddish proverb used by directors like Woody Allen and Pedro Almodovar. After the stunning “Anjadhey”, Mysskin immersed himself in a project close to his heart, “Nandalala”. It's more than a year since completion, but the film is slated for release only next month. Everyone who's watched the film is bowled over. Mysskin moved on and was on the verge of starting “Yuddham Sei” when an ecstatic Kamal Hassan named him as the director of his next film after watching “Nandalala”. Mysskin went into hibernation and wrote a historical. Kamal loved it but the budget was daunting and producers hummed and hawed. Thankfully the producers of “Yuddham Sei”, the Aghoram brothers, requested Mysskin to revive the project. The laughter and largesse has not deserted Mysskin even though the last couple of years have been a professional roller-coaster ride. “Yuddham Sei” promises to be an edge-of-the-seat thriller. The heroine is a pretty new girl, Deepa Shah while cinematography is by Sathya who's from the PC Sreeram school of cinematography. Music is by a kid who calls himself K. I had the privilege of watching “Nandalala” but more about that later. S. SHIVA KUMAR sshivu@yahoo.com