With a vision: Patients waiting for their turn at an eye camp at Vemuru.    A promotional campaign, organised by   in association with Sankara Eye Hospital at Pedakakani, dispelled many myths about voluntary eye donation. The campaign, which was held on the premises of NTR Municipal Stadium to mark World Sight Day-2010, was attended by members of various morning walkers clubs. Sankara Eye Hospital Chief Executive Officer Ram Pardhasarathy said in reply to a question from a senior citizen that anyone can donate his/her eyes. However, donations from HIV/AIDS affected persons would not be accepted. The cornea of the eye is grafted using a simple procedure in which 8 m.m. of good cornea is removed and grafted in the eyes of the donor, Mr. Pardhasarathy said. He also clarified that a pair of healthy eyes could give sight to two persons. The cornea is considered good if the endothelial count is around 2,000 per cubic metre and like all surgical procedures, grafting of cornea is not without risk of infection. Stating that cataract is the single most important cause of blindness, Mr. Pardhasarathy pointed out that cataract surgeries performed in unhygienic conditions heightens the risk of infection for patients and can some times result in loss of sight. He also explained about age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. Inaugurating the campaign, Municipal Health Officer, GMC, P. Rama Rao stressed on the importance of maintaining hygiene. He said that consumption of leafy vegetables, milk and eggs rich in Vitamin A improves eye-sight. He also added that regular eye check-up would help in early diagnosis of various eye ailments. Regional General Manager,  , K. Chandrasekharan, Marketing Manager, Sankara Eye Hospital K.R.K. Ram Prakash and president of Laughing Club, Sk. Lal Wazir and members of various walking associations were present. Many of them registered for voluntary eye donation at the camp. Later, Sankara Eye Hospital conducted a cataract eye screening camp at Vemuru village, in which 473 patients were screened and out of them 300 were selected for surgery. The hospital would conduct free surgeries at Pedakakani and transport arrangements would be provided by the hospital. Raghu Rama Sastry, camp manager, Dr. Vidya Ramesh and other supportive team was present.