Community mobilisation is one of the major components of the Targeted Intervention programme, visualised by the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) in its National AIDS Control Programme (NACP-III). Targeted Interventions (TIs) are HIV prevention and control programmes intended for specific groups which are at higher risk of exposure to HIV infection, like female sex workers or truckers or intravenous drug users. The coverage, scale and quality of the TIs can be enhanced if these ‘at-risk' communities can be brought together to mobilise themselves as community-based organisations and encourage them to head these outfits. The idea is that the pro-active role of female sex workers as a Community Based Organisation (CBO) will certainly make them more responsive to the TI programmes and make them take up the responsibility of HIV prevention However, mobilisation and empowerment of female sex workers is easily said than done. Many previous attempts to mobilise them into a well-functioning community group has been disappointing However, the success story of ‘Santhwanatheeram', a community-based organisation of female sex workers, promoted by Jawahar Suraksha Project in Alappuzha, a TI project of the Kerala State AIDS Control Society, in getting together female sex workers and generating in them a sense of responsibility towards HIV prevention and control is an example worthy of replication . Santhwanatheeram has initiated several programmes to bring together the female sex workers and encourage them to stand united as a community. But it was the process of election to choose the office-bearers of the organisation, which actually brought its members close together. The project utilised the election process as a strategy to mobilise the women and encourage them to come under an umbrella. The women were encouraged to engage in a healthy competition and to stand for the general body elections. The process resulted in bringing more such women, who were hitherto remaining invisible, into the organisation. Familiarising them with the democratic election process itself , including declaration of dates for nomination, withdrawal of nomination and canvassing the voters through direct or indirect interaction by candidates, release of election manifesto by panel of candidates etc. served as a capacity-building exercise. Besides, the women had opportunities for public speaking and a platform for leading advocacy. The members of Santhwanatheeram today are committed workers for the TI projects of the KSACS. They participate in all regular HIV prevention campaigns and are totally committed to the cause they are promoting.