The State government on Tuesday ordered the transfer of 18 officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), including seven incumbent District Collectors. Chennai Corporation Commissioner Rajesh Lakhoni, who held the post since November 2006, has been made Managing Director of Chennai Metrowater in the place of Shiv Das Meena. He is succeeded by D. Karthikeyan, an IAS officer of the 1997 batch and now Additional Secretary in the Finance Department. P. Amudha, Senior Collector of Dharmapuri District, has been appointed Project Director/Member Secretary of the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society. Ms. Amudha became the District Collector in November 2007. R. Anandakumar, Joint Commissioner (Commercial Taxes), Coimbatore, is her successor. Santosh K. Misra, who became Kancheepuram Collector in November 2007, has been made Director of Employment and Training in the place of A.S. Jeevarathinam. Mr. Misra will be Member-Secretary for the State Mission for the Scheme of Employable Skill Training to the Unemployed Educated Youth and Managing Director of the Overseas Manpower Corporation Limited. Ashish Chatterjee, Joint Commissioner (Works), Chennai Corporation, is the new Kancheepuram Collector. T. Soundiah, Tiruchi Collector since March 2008, will be the new Erode Collector. Mahesan Kasirajan, who became the Sivaganga Collector in June 2009, succeeds Mr. Soundiah. He is in turn succeeded by V. Sampath, now Additional Commissioner of Industries and Commerce. T. Abraham, who became Ariyalur Collector in August 2009, has been posted Deputy Secretary in the Labour and Employment Department. T.K. Ponnusamy, Joint Secretary in the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, will be the new Collector for Ariyalur. G. Prakash, Tuticorin Collector since February 2009, has been posted Joint Secretary in the Industries Department. C.N. Maheswaran, Joint Commissioner of Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection, succeeds him. S. Madumathi, Additional Director of Agriculture, has been made Namakkal Collector. R. Sudalaikannan, Erode Collector and on return from training, has been made Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board in the place of Dharmendra Pratap Yadav. Anu George, Deputy Secretary in the Public Department, has been appointed Deputy Commissioner in the Chennai Corporation. B. Jothi Nirmala, Deputy Commissioner (Health), Chennai Corporation, has been made Project Director, Tsunami Project Implementation Unit and Post Tsunami Sustainable Livelihood Programme. Darez Ahamed, Joint Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Chennai, has been made Deputy Commissioner (Works). Another release stated that S. Durairaj, Additional Superintendent of Police, Crime, Thiruvarur, had been promoted and posted Superintendent of Police at the State Human Rights Commission, Chennai. During the Commissionership of Mr. Lakhoni, seven flyovers in Chennai were inaugurated while six were being built. The Marina beautification project was another important scheme and 283 parks were developed. Total computerisation of functions concerning the local body was one of the significant measures undertaken in the last four years. Of 64 persons who held the post of Commissioner of Chennai Corporation, only two had longer stints. C. Narasimham was the Commissioner from March 1947 to February 1953. J.A. Ambasankar occupied the post during 1964-1968.