VARIETY FARE:(Clockwise from top left) Students of St.Anthony's High School performing a drill on sports day. Holy Family School student cabinet after the investiture ceremony. ‘Joker Dance' performed by students of St. Martin's High School. Tiny tots of Johnson Grammar School on their school's annual day. Students of Bhavan's Public School perform a dance ballet.    Staff Reporter HYDERABAD: Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Public School (Vidyashram) at Jubilee Hills staged ‘Swara Natya Tarangini', a cultural extravaganza, on February 6. Rabindra Sangeet to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore and ‘Quintessence', a dance ballet on man's relationship with five elements were the highlights of the day. Johnson Grammar It was celebration time for the students of Johnson Grammar School, Nacharam on February 14 -- the school's annual day. Chief Guest and DGP R.R.Girish Kumar distributed prizes to students. Sahithi, a student was given cash prize for securing 96 per cent in the Class X SSC Board examination. Rhythmic Euphony, a performance by pre-primary students and English play ‘Dream Come True' stood out among cultural performances. Goal Dance, Spanish Rhapsody Fitness Mantra and Karate performance were impressive. St. Martin's A Hindi ballad ‘Sravan Kumar' and enactment of Shakespeare's play ‘Taming of the Shrew' marked the Annual Day of St. Martin's High School at Chintal on February 11. MLA of Qutbullahpur Srisailam Goud attended as the chief guest. Holy Family HS Students of Holy Family High School, Trimulgherry had its ‘Investiture Ceremony' on February 15 when the new cabinet was invested with duties followed by prize distribution and cultural show. Sister Nivedita School ‘Trirang', the annual cultural meet of Sister Nivedita School was held on February 22 at Hari Hara Kala Bhavan. Speakers such as K.S.Ratnakar, chairman of Global Medical Education and Research Centre and R.V.Chandravadan, Project Director of State AIDS Control Society, stressed the role of parents and teachers in the development of a student's personality. Students were given medals and prizes. St.Anthony's St.Anthony's Primary and High Schools celebrated their respective sports days on February 9 and 10. March-past was performed by the NCC cadets, National Green Corps -- Science Club members and other students, followed by various drills. There was also a traditional dress parade by the Class X students. Prizes were given away at the end.