Future leaders: New office bearers of the Interact Club of Campion Anglo Indian HSS, Tiruchi.    The new office bearers of the Interact club of the Campion Anglo Indian Higher Secondary School were sworn in recently. Panchanathan, former Head of the Department of English, Jamal Mohamad College, was the chief guest for the function. Rev.Bro. Jesuraj, principal, was present. S. Rahul, president; S.R. Aravindh, vice-president; S. Deepan, secretary, and V.S. Adithyan, treasurer, were administered oath by Mr. Panchanathan. The NSS volunteers of CSI Higher Secondary School, Thuraiyur, organised a seven-day special camp at Ammapatti village. Rev. Chinnapparaj, correspondent, inaugurated the camp in the presence of V. Murugesan, Ammapatti panchayat president. The volunteers cleaned the temple premises. Various programmes were conducted to create awareness among the villagers of women literacy, small savings, swine flu and AIDS. At the valediction, A. Selvaraj, headmaster, gave away certificates to the volunteers in the presence of Rev. S. Christopher Chelliah, Pastor, St. Paul's CSI Church, Thuraiyur. ‘Explore 2010,' a science exhibition was conducted at SRV Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Tiruchi. V. Jayakumar, Inspector of Matriculation Schools inaugurated the exhibition in the presence of A. Ramasamy, school president, and B. Satyamoorthy, joint secretary. On display were exhibits on titles under various subjects like Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany and Computer Science. Students of standard VI to IX and XI participated in the exhibition. K. Thulasithasan, principal, said that such exhibitions would help in tapping the talents of the students. The Lions club of Tiruchi Helen Keller conducted a counselling programme on stress management for higher secondary students of Periyar Centenary Memorial Matriculation Higher Secondary School. Subbiah, HR faculty, Pace Academy, was the resource person. He advised the students to work hard and reach great heights. N. Nirmala, principal, was present. The activities of the literary association of All Saints High School were inaugurated recently. Thangadurai, headmaster, presided over the function. Duraisamy, retired Tamil teacher, Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Teppakulam, spoke on the topic ‘Thentamizh,' in which he explained the superiority of Tamil language. Compiled by G. Prasad