This fortnight at indiaplaza.in Sleepless in Seattle (1993) Cast: Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan, Bill Pullman, Rosie O' Donnell, Rob Reiner, David Hyde Pierce Director: Nora Ephron Screenwriter: Jeff Arch, Nora Ephron, Audrey Gochenour Director of photography: Sven Nykvist Composer: Marc Shaiman Price: Rs. 599 T his is the movie that started it all — the ultimate chick flick. For the generation that was young and restless in the nervous Nineties, this movie was the balm for all singleton woes. “Sleepless in Seattle” is fascinating because it is perhaps the first to reference iconic films — not as a spoof but as an affectionate homage. The Deborah Kerr-Cary Grant 1957 weepie, “An Affair to Remember,” is a running motif through the film including the climax, as is the cult classic, the Humphrey Bogart – Ingrid Bergman starrer “Casablanca” (1942). The movie tells the story of a Chicago architect, Sam Baldwin, who loses his wife to cancer. Devastated, he moves with his eight-year-old son, Jonah, to Seattle to make a fresh start. Sam, however, is still unable to get over his wife's death. On Christmas Eve, Jonah persuades a very reluctant Sam to get on national radio and talk about his loss. Women across the length and breadth of the United States empathise with Sam and letters of support, encouragement and proposals pour in. Annie Reed, a journalist from Baltimore is one of the women moved by Sam's story. She is engaged to a nice man, Walter, but she feels a connection with Sam. The film follows rom com conventions including a meeting in the airport, crossed letters, the almost-wedding, the other woman who is so definitely wrong, well-loved romantic songs from the movies and of course the ultimate romantic meeting on the top of the Empire State Building. Nora Ephron, who directed the film, went on to direct other rom coms such as “You've Got Mail” and she also wrote that other favourite “When Harry Met Sally.” “Sleepless in Seattle” is also important because it gave a romance a millennial reboot. After the big, action movies of the Eighties, coupled with the AIDS scare, “Sleepless in Seattle” made it once again cool to celebrate love. The women were career girls, who still needed that connection to make them complete. Carrie and her sisters from “Sex and the City” would find their genesis in this movie. The other endearing thing about “Sleepless” is the innocence and the naiveté. The twin towers are of course standing tall. An unattended bag left behind the observation deck at the Empire State Building does not bring the bomb disposal squad, rather it brings the lovers together. It is also is the time the internet was taking its baby steps and the computer was looked at in shock and awe in equal parts. When Jessica books Jonah a flight to New York, she tells him she will put his age as 12. When Jonah says no one is going to believe it, she says “if it is there in the computer, they will believe it.” Also Annie's cumbersome search for Sam — in the prehistoric days before Google became a noun and a verb! The cast is good. It is great to Tom Hanks with normal hair (not in his scary Robert Langdon avatar) as Sam while Meg Ryan is sweetly romantic as Annie. Bill Pullman has not yet being called upon to lead the country as the Commander in Chief against evil aliens and is nice as the allergy-prone, loser fiancé, Walter. Extras include the music video of “When I fell in love” and a featurette called “Love in the Movies” where Ephron says “Sleepless in Seattle” is not about love, rather it is about love in the movies. She says how people got their references from movies rather than books and the film is a homage to that trend. There was a revealing comment by a historian of the Empire State Building who said after the film came out, there were countless instances of people proposing at the Empire State Building and hoping for a heart to appear on Valentine's Day on the building like it did in the movie — effectively proving Ephron's point!