W omen prepared sweets, shared delicacies and exchanged pleasantries. Children danced and made merry as if they had seen light at the end of the tunnel. The occasion was Deepavali celebrations, but with a difference. Deep within, they longed for acceptance from fellow beings, because it meant a lot for those like Selvamani and 14-year-old S. Vasanthi - both HIV positive. “We are here to wipe out stigma associated with HIV,” hoped Selvamani, owning a tiffin shop in Usilampatti. “The celebration has ushered in hope as we are used to a life of seclusion in our village,” smiled, Vasanthi. The District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit, Vaigai Positive Network and the Madura College organised the celebrations at Madura College on Wednesday. The programme was aimed at creating awareness on HIV besides bringing together HIV-infected individuals, infected and affected children and student members of Red Ribbon Clubs. As many as 100 students belonging to Red Ribbon Clubs and 72 women belonging to six Self-Help Groups formed by women living with HIV in Madurai participated. The District Program Manager Thangapandian urged Red Ribbon Club members to wage war against prevailing stigma and discrimination besides exploding myths about HIV. He also said that youth should come forward to motivate people so that they could avail themselves of free services available at various testing centres. Iyyappan, president of Vaigai Network of Positive people said: “Many people due to lack of awareness ill-treat people within their family.” The level of discrimination faced by people living with HIV in the society is very high. This issue could be addressed only with support of youth. As part of the celebration, an interaction between people living with HIV, doctors and students was arranged where students clarified their doubts about HIV, discussed the concerns and challenges faced by the infected people. Similarly, PACHE Trust, a city based social service organisation celebrated Deepavali festival at Chekkanoorani on Sunday. The celebration was organised exclusively for children infected and affected with HIV. Presiding over the function, the District Collector, C. Kamaraj, promised to provide 35kgs of rice to infected and affected families in the district. Around 300 children and their mothers including 127 infected children participated. The project director of the trust P. Manoharan highlighted that the project – Children Living With HIV/AIDS Happiness to All (CHAHA) is aimed at bringing smile in the faces of children and their families through educational and nutritional supports. The project is covering 429 families and reaching out to 939 infected and affected children. He also stated that HIV prevalence in Madurai city has come down to 0.14 per cent from 0.75 per cent in 1996. Elocution, drawing and dancing competitions were conducted and prizes were distributed to the winners. Along with sweets, crackers and tree saplings, they walked away with a smile pinning hope that society would change and accept them soon. S.S. KAVITHA