Informative: (From left) Inaugural session of NET/SET coaching classes at Hajee Karutha Rowther Howdia College, Uthamapalayam. Students of Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, Sivakasi, with the trophy won by them at an inter-collegiate programme at K. R. College of Arts and Science, Kovilpatti. A meeting of the Physics Association of Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi.    The Research Zone of PG Department of Commerce of Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi, conducted a paper presentation session in which 25 students presented papers in various areas of Commerce. P. Sundarapandian of VHNSN College acted as moderator for the session. Ganesh Babu proposed a vote of thanks. The Department of IT organised a seminar on ‘Introduction to Nano Computing' in which speakers delivered lectures on the application of nano technology and types of nano computers S. Aarthi welcomed the gathering. The keynote address was delivered by P. Manimuthu and M. Babu, alumni. J. Jansirani proposed a vote of thanks. An eye camp, organised by the PG Department of Commerce in association with Lions Club of Sivakasi Crackers City and Sankara Eye Hospital, Krishnankoil, was inaugurated by A. P. Selvarajan, secretary. K. Ramdoss Director, PG Department of Commerce, welcomed the gathering. Over 150 persons were screened for various eye ailments at the camp. Seventeen of them were taken to Sri Sanakra Eye Hospital for cataract surgery. The Department of Physics organised a training programme in physics experiments for students of Mathiyasenai Middle School as an extension activity. Various basic science experiments were explained to the students. A lecture on ‘Crystallography' was delivered by M. Umamaheswaran at a meeting organised by the Physics Association. A. Subramanian, Vice-Principal, presided. Prof. Umamaheswaran explained the classification of materials based on the arrangement of atoms. The Department of Commerce (CA) organised a lecture on ‘Page Maker – an overview' by B. Surendar. R. Jai Ganesh welcomed the gathering. T. Kohila proposed a vote of thanks. The Entrepreneurship Development Cell of the college organised a lecture on ‘Entrepreneurial success formula' by B. Ravichandran on VHNSN College. T. Manoj Kumar welcomed the gathering. The Principal, S. Kanmani, delivered the presidential address. The Vice-Principal, A. Subramanian, addressed the students. P. Balavinodha proposed a vote of thanks. The Department of Computer Science organised a lecture on ‘Project – a way to express yourself' by P. Athideerapandian. S. Geetha Rani welcomed the gathering. K. Suriya Vignesh proposed a vote of thanks. The NSS units of the college, in association with MMC Foundation, organised a TB awareness camp. It was inaugurated by S. Balasubramanian, Deputy Director of Health Services. R. Selvaraj and P. Alagurani, Medical Officers, and Thirupathi, District Health Educator, delivered lectures on TB and Revised National TB Control Programme. S. B. Shangeetha welcomed the gathering. N. Lingasamy, Managing Trustee, Madurai Meenakshi Chokkanathar Foundation, proposed the vote of thanks. The Department of Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Chemistry organised a training programme for Plus Two Chemistry teachers of higher secondary schools of Virudhunagar district. R. Muniasamy, Headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, N. Subbiahpuram, welcomed the gathering. The District Educational Officer, V. Pandi, presided. S. Alagappan and T. Thangaraj, heads of the Department of Chemistry, stressed the need to enhance the basic knowledge and soft skill of students. Group discussions were held in the organic, inorganic and physical chemistry. Lilly Mary Vimala, Headmistress, Ammaniammal Higher Secondary School, Rajapalayam, proposed a vote of thanks. *** The NET/SET coaching classes were inaugurated at Hajee Karutha Rowther Howdia College, Uthamapalayam, by V. Chinnian, NSS Coordinator, Madurai Kamaraj University. M. Sheikh Mohideen, president, college governing committee, presided. The Principal, M. Howdh Mohideen, addressed the gathering. K. Jayakodi of Saraswathi Narayanan College, Madurai, explained how a student should prepare for NET/SET examinations. G. Selvaraj, coordinator, welcomed the gathering. S. Kannan, Professor of Zoology, emphasised the importance of NET/SET. *** ‘Chimera – 2010,' a State-level inter-collegiate programme, was organised by the departments of Biochemistry and Microbiology of K. R. College of Arts and Science, Kovilpatti. It was inaugurated by K. Balakrishnan of Department of Biotechnology of Bharatidasan University. K.R. Arunachalam, Managing Director, K.R. educational institutions. R. Gopal, Principal, welcomed the gathering. Dr. Balakrishnan spoke about the importance and applications of biotechnology. Over 150 students from colleges in different parts of the State participated in the competitions held as part of the programme. Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, Sivakasi, won the overall championship at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Dr. Balakrishnan distributed prizes and certificates to the winners at the valedictory session. *** The Society of Automotive Engineers of National Engineering College, Kovilpatti, organised a guest lecture on ‘Design and Development of Launchers.' K.S. Venkateswaran, Divisional Manager, Integrated Liquid Hydrogen Plant (ILHP), ISRO, Mahendragiri, was the chief guest. He spoke on the role of fundamental science in space research, history of rockets, cryogenic engines and launching of technologies. Jaisankar, Vice-Charman of the society, welcomed the gathering. N.S. Marimuthu, Principal, and the staff members were present. I. Neethi Manickam and B. Stalin of Mechanical Engineering Department and staff coordinators of the society, organised the programme. *** A workshop for school teachers was organised at Gandhigram Rural University, Dindigul. SM. Ramasamy, Vice-Chancellor, inaugurated the workshop. He spoke about ecosystem and its preservation. He said that tectonic movements caused withdrawal of sea up to a range of 10 to 100 kilometres, resulting in the loss of coral wealth and soil erosion. The seminar discussed on various environmental issues. It includes waste management, climate change and sustainable development. *** A State-level conference on ‘Impact of global meltdown on Indian economy' was held at Nadar Saraswathi College of Arts and Science in Theni. R. Varadaraj, Director, Rajashree Sugars, inaugurated the conference. In his address, he spoke about economic recession. B. Ramachandran, Secretary, presided. Mr. Ramachandran released a souvenir and it was received by A.G.V. Narayanan, Dean, Faculty of Management, EBET Group of Institutions. *** Department of Hotel Management and Catering Science of Mary Matha College, Periyakulam, launched a value-added course on ‘Basic Catering Management.' Issac PJ, Principal, inaugurated the programme. Chef Raj Mohan, a technical trainer, presided. The college conducted a seminar on ‘Youth role in HIV/AIDS awareness.' *** Mahendragiri L. Louis Sam Titus, Deputy General Manager, Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, Indian Space Research Organisation, inaugurated the eighth national-level technical symposium, ‘Ecstasy 10', at Francis Xavier Engineering College, Tirunelveli. He highlighted the achievements of ISRO in launching communication satellites and the launching of PSLV-C15 that carried five satellites including ‘Pico' weighing about a kilogram. *** Coaching classes for students of SC/ST /OBC and other minority communities was inaugurated at Thiruvalluvar College, Papanasam, recently. K. Murugan, Principal, presided. R. Balasundar, Director, Institute of Management Studies, Madurai, spoke on various career options and competitive examinations. *** The Post-Graduate Department of Commerce and Research Centre of Sri Parasakthi College for Women, Courtallam, organised a State-level workshop on ‘Application of statistical package for social science research.' M. Manoharan, Associate Professor, PG Department of Commerce Research Centre, Cardamom Planter's Association College, Bodinayakanur, explained the application of Chi–Square Test, ANOVA test, Garret Ranking in social science research. The department also organised another guest lecture by A. Sujatha, PG Department of Commerce, Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi, on ‘Power of C language in accounts.' R. Kala, Associate Professor, Department of Mathematics, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, inaugurated the Mathematics Association. P. Vijay Anand, Properietor, Swastick Agency and Traders, Sivakasi, inaugurated the Commerce Association. *** Compiled by S.Annamalai, Praveen Paul Joseph, K. Raju, and P.Sudhakar