Staff Correspondent Belgaum: The Red Ribbon Express-II to create awareness about HIV, which halted at Belgaum Railway station on February 2 and 3, before reaching Dharwad on Thursday, evoked good response with about 13,000 people visiting the exhibition on wheels. The visitors included students, social workers and activists of NGOs campaigning on anti-HIV/AIDS programmes and the general public. During the two days, 373 persons volunteered for HIV counselling sessions, four were found reactive (positive). They were advised treatment. According to V.B. Kulkarni, District Programme Officer, District AIDS Prevention & Control Unit (DAPCU), here on Thursday, the train provided a dynamic platform for the people to discover for themselves the myths and misconceptions about HIV through interactive learning. Ten batches of training programmes were conducted during the two days for members of panchayats, students, teachers and nursing students. The RRE II, the world’s largest social mobilisation and communications campaign began its journey from New Delhi on Dec. 1 to coincide with the World AIDS Day. After its one-year long campaign in 21 States, including Karnataka, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Kerala, the train will return to national capital on the next World AIDS Day. In Karnataka, the train will halt for 19 days at different railway stations. During the halt of the train, two buses having similar interactive communications and exhibition material, along with cultural troupes visit nearby villages. In Belgaum district, 10,677 people visited the two vans in 16 villages during two days. Of the four persons who were tested positive for HIV, one was tested at the mobile van and three at the railway platform where the RRE was stationed. Spandana Network of HIV Positive people, a NGO, had opened its stalls on the platform to provide latest information about HIV. An information about Karnataka mentioned that an estimated 2.4 lakh people living with HIV and only about 1.10 lakh know if they were positive. “The RRE is a big boost to encourage people for attending counselling sessions and testing. Once the HIV positive status is known, it will be easy for them to access the free government services and treatment,” said Mahantesh Male, president of Spandana.