After blockades and bandhs, the most-talked-about subject in the insurgency-hit Manipur, perhaps, is drug abuse in its latest ‘avatar' of Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST), said to be a medically-safe drug administered in a safer mode under medical supervision. The OST, also known as the oral substitution therapy, is proven to have reduced possible harm like opioid abuse and overdose, the spread of HIV, and other blood borne viruses like hepatitis-C and infections like abscesses for the drug users. “Abscesses which, until recently, were a main cause of infection is now a story of the past,” says Leimapokpam Deepak, president of the Manipur Network of Positive People. The group runs an OST centre here, for several injecting drug users. The therapy involves providing injecting drug users an alternative in the form of a sublingual tablet buprenorphine. “The tablet gives as much ‘kick' as a heroin shot,” a drug user told  . An addict for the past several years, he has been coming to this centre daily, for his regular dose of OST which, he also feels is “safe and effective.” Initiated by the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID), the OST programme was made operational in Manipur in March 2006 on a pilot basis. In January 2008, the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) supported the programme by funding it partly and integrating it into the existing target intervention programmes as a component of harm reduction. Heroin and spasmo proxyvon (locally know as No 4 and SP respectively) are the commonly used drugs in the State. Until July 2010, altogether 1,113 injecting drug users were accessing OST regularly in Manipur - the highest prevalence of HIV among the six high-risk States in India - through nine centres run by different non-governmental organisations and community-based groups. Normally, a drug user would be in his mid-20s by the time he becomes a hardcore drug user and in need of substitution therapy. Most of them claim to have tried some form of treatment, and failed, before they come for OST. They come through peer educators or outreach workers who are themselves recovering-drug users or presently under OST. While the debate is still on to whether to describe OST as a rehabilitative therapy, as the relapse rate is high or just a harm reduction exercise, there have been success stories like that of Bikram who have ``cleansed'' themselves totally. Now working as project manager of Dedicated Peoples Union (DPU) that runs an OST drop in centre at Kumbi, about 60 kms from the State capital Imphal, Bikram says it was possible through the alternate therapy and family support.