K.N. Pradip, Director of Balasahayoga . — Photo: K.R. Deepak    The response to the largest-ever care and support programme covering 50,000 children of HIV/AIDS-hit parents across 11 districts in AP has generated a lot of interest among international community and NGOs. The home-based care being rendered since the launching of the five-year programme named Balasahayoga in 2007 by involving partner NGOs with active support from AP State AIDS Control Society (APSACS) is being studied periodically. “The experience gained by us by implementing this project on such a grand scale will be of help to replicate it elsewhere,” says K.N. Pradip, Director of Balasahayoga. The programme is one of the largest care, treatment and support programmes for children and their families in the world to improve the quality of life of children infected and affected by HIV/AIDS and their families in Vizianagaram, Guntur, West Godavari, East Godavari, Kurnool, Anantapur, Kadapa, Chittoor, Mahabubnagar, Medak and Adilabad districts. The project is implemented by a consortium of international NGOs – FHI, Clinton Foundation and Care; in partnership with 22 partner NGOs. As there is no data on affected/afflicted children, the partner NGOs and outsource workers have so far conducted tests on 76 per cent of children under study and diagnosed 5,000 as HIV positive. The $50 million project is supported by Children's Investment Fund Foundation (CIFF) and Elton John AIDS Foundation (AJAF) of UK. The study covers 35,000 households. Mr. Pradip told   recently that they were flooded with queries from various quarters on the progress of the unique project. During the mid-course review, they found that significant progress. He exuded confidence that they would ensure 100 per cent HIV/AIDS test for all the children covered under the programme. He said they were extending support to children and their families in areas of health, especially HIV testing and treatment and nutrition management; education, psycho-social support and safety nets (livelihood support and linkage to government welfare schemes using the facilities and schemes made available by the government). So far, 1200 children have been put on Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART) with minimum drop-out from the life-prolonging treatment due to regular follow up and support to the families. 