Useful inputs: A section of the industrial workers listening intently during a meeting conducted at Padi.    A unified and global commitment to stem the HIV/AIDS pandemic is building. This effort requires additional resources, and effective use of resources that target research, prevention, treatment, care and support for those infected with and affected by the disease. There is an urgent need to create awareness among the people of this community, and with this aim a meeting was arranged by SSI Development Society at Padi on December 4. Workers from various industrial units located in Ambattur Industrial Estate participated in this programme. K.U. Nathan, principal of National Safety Academy, asked all the participants to lead happy matrimonial life with integrity based on our Indian traditional values. He also explained about personal safety measures and how to avoid HIV transmission during emergency situations such as accidents. He asked all participants to treat HIV affected persons with dignity. He emphasised the need to participate in sports and other outdoor activities to maintain good health. S. Pattabiraman, Manager, SSI Development Society, welcomed the gathering. R.A. Mohamed Kamal, president of SSI Development Society, said that all the companies will be contacted to conduct this HIV/AIDS awareness programme in their premises. Steps to be followed by the industrial units/ companies to create awareness among their workers: To create an HIV/AIDS Response Committee and appoint a staff to handle all company HIV/AIDS related activities; to develop a workplace policy on HIV/AIDS and to engage senior management personnel in programme activities; assessing the rate of infection in the workforce, any risk factors and impact on business, conducting a survey (preferably administered by an outside party) to identify the knowledge, attitude, practice and behaviour of the employees, and integrating TB into the HIV/AIDS workplace programme to ensure that the HIV/AIDS strategy is gender sensitive. The company should also partner with the Ministry of Health or National AIDS Committee, NGOs, medical organisations and other local business houses and leverage their resources. G. Manikandan, lecturer, St. John Ambulance, explained in detail about the prevention of the syndrome. T. MADHAVAN