Minister for Animal Husbandry Kolusu Parthasarathy was disappointed when he found out that Home Minister P. Sabita Indira Reddy left the city without meeting him. The Home Minister who came to the city to condole the family members of Palagani Naga Vaishnavi left as soon as she had lunch. She came here by road and left early to attend a programme in Nalgonda district en route the State capital. After apologising on the mobile phone, the Minister released his pent-up anger on the Irrigation SE, whom he called next. Talking in a voice that was louder than necessary, he told the man to ensure that water reached the tail-end areas by “hook or crook”. An inordinate delay in arrival of Director-General of the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) K. Chandramouli at a local NGO office here had the mediapersons growing restive. The lensmen were seen dawdling aimlessly on the premises while the reporters made curious enquiries about the causes of delay almost every ten minutes. Finally, the NACO chief arrived but he was behind schedule by close to two hours. Even as he began going around interacting with various groups comprising members affected by HIV, the impatient mediapersons took him aside and thrust their mikes on his face for their share of bytes. “I’ll speak to you for five minutes. But after that, you must leave me alone,” said Mr. Chandramouli obliging their plea. Making only a couple of general statements, Mr. Chandramouli closed the session and walked into the meeting hall where he sat through a brief power point presentation on VMM activities and spoke a few words of praise for the organisation before leaving. The leaders of the unified Andhra Pradesh agitation have started closely following any report or news that contains any reference to Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram. It became evident from the way in which the unified AP leaders readily criticise the Union Minister whenever they come to know about some “unsavoury news”. The other day, TDP MLA and Unified AP JAC leader Devineni Umamaheswara Rao made a reference to Mr. Chidambaram’s alleged plans to develop Chennai at the cost of Hyderabad. He also released copies of a news report, saying that efforts are being made to take advantage of disturbances in the AP capital to give a new fillip to expansion of Chennai city. Mr. Umamaheswara Rao referred to this report and said that it showed how political considerations drove some national leaders to try dividing the State. As days pass, more and more controversies appear to emerge surrounding the statehood issue. (G. V. Ramana Rao, P. Sujatha Varma and G. Ravikiran)