Official apathy: As the diagnostic centre at Petlaburj maternity hospital is not functioning, patients are forced to go to private labs for the tests. -PHOTO: NAGARA GOPAL    The sorry state of diagnostic labs in the two top maternity hospitals in the capital-one at Petlaburj and the other at Sultanbazaar, is forcing patients to pay through their noses to private diagnostic centres for mundane to complicated tests. The limitation has helped such centres to flourish around maternity hospitals and receive a steady flow of patients throughout the day. Lack of technicians and steady funding to Government labs has made it impossible to conduct diagnostic tests on a large scale. As a result, families of pregnant women, pay a lot of money to private diagnostic centres for tests, making them poorer and debt-ridden. Most of these centres have ‘agents' who scout around the hospital premises and campus for gullible patients and attenders and take them to their facility, promising cheap diagnostic tests. The promise, however, is seldom fulfilled. Regular tests that should cost within Rs. 100 are charged more. Private labs at Koti and Nayapul area charge anywhere from Rs. 150 to Rs. 250 for regular tests like blood picture, urine culture and blood platelet count and for complicated tests like HIV and Hepatitis, they charge nothing less than Rs. 500 from each patient. If the patients are from districts, then the prices of the diagnostic tests change accordingly. For instance, a test to check thyroid levels should not cost more than Rs. 300. And yet, such centres charge more depending on the patient's background. “I paid Rs. 450 for thyroid test. We have come from Shamshabad and now we don't have money to go back. We are waiting for our relatives to pick us up,” says Shailaja, a pregnant woman at Petlaburj Maternity Hospital. Except for inpatients, both the maternity hospitals do not provide diagnostic tests to pregnant women. The tests, which are not available include blood picture, checking thyroid levels, diabetes, Hepatitis B, immunity to Rubella, urine culture for bacterial growth and platelet count. The authorities express inability to take up tests at a large scale. “We have written several times to the higher-ups requesting for more lab technicians and dedicated funds. We receive over 1200 pregnant women in the outpatient wings daily and it is humanly impossible for us to take up tests for all,” hospital doctors maintain.