The Orissa Tourism has begun eliciting views from its ground-level staff on the approach to make people involved in tourism industry responsive to the cause of HIV and AIDS prevention. The initiative was taken by the Tourism Department after Orissa State AIDS Control Society (OSACS) pointed out that tourism was likely to provide favourable environment for spread of HIV and AIDS. Addressing the first-ever orientation programme here on Tuesday, Director of Tourism T. Ao asked his officials to gauge the level of resistance over accepting proactive step such as installing condom vending machines (CVM) and displaying information, education and communication material on hotel premises. “We can immediately launch very visible trial such as installing CVMs in places like Puri and Konark to assess the response of people,” said Mr. Ao. The tourism director impressed upon the tourist officers to elicit response of hoteliers and restaurant operators on HIV/AIDS prevention measures. Orissa basically gets tourists from neighbouring states like West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. The number of tourists who arrived in Orissa in 2008 was 39,50,236. “Tourist officers are holding key positions to prevent spread of HIV and AIDS. Presence of large number of people with risky behaviour towards HIV and AIDS in tourist places make the sector conducive for the spread of disease,” said Alekh Chandra Padhiary, project director of OSACS. The Tourism Department in association with OSACS is going to prepare an action plan how to enhance knowledge on HIV and AIDS among different stakeholders of tourism sector and ensure safer sex for the tourist. Mr. Padhiary said hotel staff, travel agents and tourist guides would be sensitised in the second phase and it would lead to formulation of workplace policies. The Tourism Department is likely to identify hotspots of ‘sex tourism' in the State and subsequently make concerted effort to address the threat of HIV and AIDS infection. The OSACS wants tourism industry bodies to provide condoms, information about HIV in hotel rooms, besides establishing CVMs at suitable wayside amenities.