He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything. This is becoming true of Andhra Pradesh. For the first time the State has achieved remarkable gains in its fight against the HIV epidemic, arguably the most challenging of modern public health problems. Though reversing the scourge remains a tough proposition, the State is able to arrest the malady in its track. For a change there is comfort in the cold statistics. The HIV prevalence rate today is now 0.85 per cent down from 1.22 per cent in 2008. And the good news is it is going to further decline among the general population. Also heartening is the rise of number of districts with less than 1 per cent HIV prevalence rate from eight in 2008 to 17 in 2010. However, Guntur, Kadapa, Karimnagar, Mahboobnagar, East and West Godavari continue to be high burden districts with the HIV prevalence being more than 1 per cent. In spite of the downward trend, there is no room for complacency as the State has high population of high risk group (HRG) in terms of female sex workers (FSWs), MSMs (men having sex with men) and the bridge populations - truckers and migrants. Not long ago A.P was the epicentre of the HIV epidemic accounting for almost 21 per cent of the country's estimated burden of PLHA. What drives HIV transmission here is mostly unprotected sex. Targeted intervention of the HRG has paid off in checking this problem. Saturated coverage of HRGs, scaling up of preventive services, community led structural intervention, linkage of positive HRGs with ART services have contributed in bringing down the prevalence rate. Another important factor is the widespread distribution of condoms – almost 7 million a month. The condom utilisation has gone up tremendously among clients of FSWs. The Integrated Biological and Behaviour Assessment data shows that it is up from 24 per cent to 78 per cent in Guntur, 16 to 73 per cent in Hyderabad, 23 to 58 per cent in Vizag, 16 to 72 per cent in Warangal and from 26 to 72 per cent in East Godavari. Prevention is better than cure. The A.P. State AIDS Control Society (APSACS) seem to set a great store by this maxim. Its primary focus is on prevention of HIV transmission among the HRGs. For this 138 targeted interventions are in operation covering about 2.50 lakh HRGs and bridge population. The coverage for the targeted population has been streamlined with upscale and realignment of interventions based on revised mapping of HRGs. “However, coverage of HRGs under TI is yet to be saturated in Telangana and Rayalseema districts. In coastal districts too there are pockets to be covered”, says R.V. Chandravadan, Project Director, APSACS. Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTCs) are the backbone of preventive services. As such the testing facilities have gone up from 677 in 2007 to 1180 in 2010. Likewise the Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART) centres have increased from17 in 2006-07 to 43 now. The number of PLHIVs availing the ART medicines every month has increased from 10,600 in 2007 to 79,949 now. So is the referral of positives from ICTCs to ART centres. So far 140 PLHIVs have availed the second line of treatment at the Centre of Excellence at Gandhi Medical College. To further promote the ART utilisation, the APSACS has proposed to provide free bus passes to persons visiting these centres.