Inmates of Abhaya Students shelter run by Native Medicare Charitable Trust at Somayampalayam near Coimbatore which houses children of HIV infected parents. - Photo: K. Ananthan    Stigma. The six-letter word was the biggest hindrance to reaching out to persons living with HIV/AIDS. But times and attitudes are changing, even if slowly. Days when large sections of society ostracised such persons are becoming history. With increased awareness on the disease-causing virus, the way its spreads, the preventive steps and the treatment options, people are learning to treat those living with HIV/AIDS with dignity. Says R. Meenakshi, President, Covai District HIV Ullor Nala Sangam: “The attitude of a significant section to look down upon the affected persons prevents the victims from leading a normal life”. Yet, there is a silver lining as more and more affected persons are coming out of their shell to talk about their problems and get counselled. “Rehabilitation is possible only when they voluntarily seek help. The Sangam is four-year old. For the first two years, we were able to get only 700 members. But, in the last two years it has grown to 1,824. This is a good sign,” she says. The Sangam is involved in providing peer counselling, need-based advocacy, and organising support group meetings. It has extended its activities to arranging insurance policies, finding jobs / self employment for positive people, besides many other forms of assistance. M. Somesh, President, Coimbatore Network for Positive People (CNP+), says the seven-year old network has 2,500 members. Their Drop-in Centre, which concentrates on rehabilitation, alone has a strength of 980 members. As part of the rehabilitation work, the network uses its members for its outreach work rather than employing outsiders. “This has a very good impact, especially among positive pregnant women. They are more open to responding to the measures suggested for a safe delivery of babies who are not HIV positive,” Mr. Somesh says. Ms. Meenakshi also says that there are many donors who come forward to rehabilitate the HIV positive by offering them jobs, offering them housing on concessional rent, and also free education for their children. However, the Government can do a lot more in ensuring a dignified life for them.