SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT The latest edition of the reference annual ‘India', brought out by the Publications Division of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, was released recently in Delhi. India 2010 and Bharat 2010 are the 54th editions in the India series and have over the years been popular among students studying for competitive examinations, particularly the civil services examination. The books are a compendium of information on various aspects of India, compiled from authoritative official sources. It also serves as handy reference volume for those looking for information relating to the country. The book containing over 1,200 pages of authentic and up-to-date information on various aspects of our national life is a rich source of information on India's economy, polity, demography, land and people, health, defence, art and culture, flora and fauna, scientific advancements, constitutional amendments, said an official release. It also includes sections on education, information technology and current affairs. It has also covered most contemporary topics like climate change, exploration and conservation of biosphere reserves, renewable energy and sustainable development, the MIS scheme for monitoring and evaluation of government programmes, nuclear power programme, AIDS and cancer control programmes, immunisation and recent economic upheaval, the release added. The book is being sold through the counters of the Publications Division. But particularly useful for the students and the public alike are the free downloadable versions of the book. Both the English and Hindi versions of the book can also be downloaded in the pdf format from the website of the publications division - http://www.publicationsdivision.nic.in/others/India_2010.pdf (English version URL). However PDF reading software (available free from different download sites) will be required to read them. It was the Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting Ambika Soni who released the reference book last week. The Publications Division is among the largest public sector publishing houses in the country, having brought out over 8000 titles in Hindi, English and other major languages of the country. It also publishes the popular weekly career journals Employment News and Rozgar Samachar.