Welcome: Pro-Chancellor of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham Swami Abhayamrita Chaitanya speaking to the new batch of engineering students in Coimbatore. (Right) Dr. Kannaki Uthraraj, Director, The Fertility Center, KMCH, speaking during the inauguration of the Biotechnology Association of Kumaraguru College of Technology.    The inauguration of the Biotechnology Association activities of Kumaraguru College of Technology was held recently. Kannaki Uthraraj, Director, The Fertility Centre, Kovai Medical Center and Hospital, spoke on “Technology becomes Human.” She elaborated the use of Assisted Reproduction Techniques (ART) for begetting children. Pointing out the various reasons that could attribute to infertility in women, Dr. Kannaki added that treatment would depend on the underlying cause. The possibility of gamete retrieval from cancer patients prior to chemotherapy and preservation of the same for future use was also explained. Co-Chairman of the college B.K. Krishnaraj Vanavarayar spoke. The induction of new batch of engineering students of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham was held on the university premises in Ettimadai. Students along with parents attended the function that was organised to welcome them. Pro-Chancellor Swami Abhayamrita Chaitanya, Vice-Chancellor P. Venkat Rangan and other faculty members addressed the students and highlighted the importance of higher education in shaping the character of a student and enabling them to get a lucrative job. The Department of Biomedical Engineering of Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College organised a hands-on training on “Basic Medical Electronics and Component Identification and Testing”. J. Dinesh, Managing Director, K.L. Institute of Technology, handled the training. He dealt with component identification, soldering techniques and PCB designing. RVS Institute of Management Studies and Research conducted an orientation programme for the first MBA students. Manjula Narasimhan, Manager, Finance and Pre-Sales, KGFSL, inaugurated the programme and highlighted the importance of value-added learning becoming a part of the curriculum of the MBA programme. Experts from various industries and academicians handled the various sessions. Management games to refresh the minds of the young students and to serve as ice-breaking sessions were held. A management development programme on “Employee Retention for Higher Organisational Productivity” was held at the KPR School of Business. P.S. Rao, management consultant, conducted the programme. He stressed the need to change the mindset from one of stopping the flow of attrition to one of attracting and retaining committed, capable, competent, and contributing employees by changing the characteristic of the organisation to where employees felt at home. The second installation ceremony of the Covai User Group was held recently. Vidiya Prasanth was installed as the Chief Executive Officer for 2010-11. On the occasion, Sundaresan was installed as the CEO of Students Software Solutions. It launched a social networking website www.tinywall.in. Following closely on the heels of these events, an-all women enterprise called Aagnya Consultancy Services was also launched with Vandanaa Lakshmi as its first CEO. The Department of Physical Education of Tamil Nadu College of Engineering organised a blood donation camp in the college premises. As many as 50 students donated blood. Representatives from the blood bank of PSG Hospitals were present to collect the blood and take it to the bank. Coimbatore Institute of Engineering and Technology conducted a recruitment drive for final year B.E., B. Tech., and MCA students. Excelacom Technologies, Chennai, had come to recruit for their human resource needs. As many as 130 students participated which included aptitude test, group discussion, technical interview and HR interview. After the final selection, 10 students got offer letters to join the organisation on completion of their course. Karpagam Polytechnic College organised a State-level Science and Technology exhibition for school and polytechnic students in the college premises. Exhibits were based on science and technology, mathematics, physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, electronics, computer science, etc. The Department of Bioinformatics of Dr.G.R. Damodaran College of Science organised a seminar “To Be or Not to Be – In Bioinformatics”. R.S. Annadurai, Chief Executive Officer, and R. Pravinkumar, Project Lead – Computational Biology, Prescient Biosciences, were the resource persons for the seminar. They stressed the fact that all life science disciplines worked together in harmony and one could not sustain without the other. Pointing out the advantages of acquiring a qualification in life sciences, he said those who had degrees in life sciences were much sought after in the industry and were on a par with IT professionals. The placement cell of Sri. G.V.G. Visalakshi College for Women and HCL-K2 Academy organised a training on soft skill development. S. Sivakumar, Education Counsellor, spoke on the importance of identifying the strengths and weaknesses by an individual and using that knowledge to become successful in life. The Rotaract Club of RI District 3201, and PSGR Krishnammal College for Women organised the marking of fatal points on the road at the Pioneer Mill Junction. City Police Commissioner C. Sylendra Babu inaugurated the event and marked the first fatal point in the Safety Track II. NGM College, Pollachi, conducted a seminar on Job Opportunities in Government Sector. K. Balakrishnan, District Employment Officer, Coimbatore Employment Office, explained the various competitive examinations conducted by the UPSC, TNPSC, TRB, SSC, Railways, and other quasi-Government and Nava Rathana Enterprises of the Government. He stressed the need for possessing high levels of skills in subject knowledge, general knowledge, numerical ability, reasoning and the English language to clear the examinations with high cut-off marks. A stress management programme was conducted for police personnel by the Tamil Nadu Police Department in association with Nehru College of Management at the college premises. The programme was to help the police learn some stress relieving exercises. City Police Commissioner C. Sylendra Babu inaugurated the session. Secretary of Nehru Group of Institutions P. Krishna Kumar and HR Director of Roots Industries Limited Kavidasan besides others served as resource persons. The inauguration of the UGC XI Plan Merged Scheme of Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science was held recently. Registrar of Bharathiar University P. Thirumalvalavan inaugurated the scheme and spoke on the current status of India among the world countries. The students were informed by Co-ordinator of the Scheme V. Ponnuswamy that special coaching classes would be conducted to prepare them for the UPSC, TNPSC and other competitive examinations. Classes for NET / SLET would also be held, he added. Hiroshima Day was observed by students of the Lisieux College of Education. Inter-religious prayer meetings, peace rallies, and poster presentation formed part of the events. Messages such as “Peace is Wealth”, “India for Peace” and “Say no to war” were printed and written on placards and carried by the students during the rally. The inauguration of the activities of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and its association were held at the SNS College of Engineering. Xiaohui Yuan, Professor, University of North Texas, the U.S., inaugurated the association and spoke on “Literature Mining for Protein Interaction Discovery”. He focussed on the challenges, objectives, hypotheses generation, and application of image processing techniques for detecting cancers. The Commerce Department of Sri Krishna Arts and Science College organised a debate on “Foreign Direct Investment is Inevitable in Medical Sector to Have Medical Technology”. P.S. Premanath, Chief Executive Officer of R.K. Group Hospitals, was the judge for the event. Mediating the debate, Dr. Premanath said the FDI was inevitable in the field of medical sciences because it helped bring more technology to India. The inauguration of the Psychology Association of the Avinashilingam Deemed University for Women was held recently. U. Indulal, Director-Technical, The Arya Vaidya Pharmacy Limited, inaugurated the association and stressed the importance of counselling as a preparatory tool for patients to successfully undergo physical, psychological and spiritual aspects of holistic treatment in Ayurveda. A programme to welcome the newly inducted students was held at Sri Gee College of Arts and Science. Senior students took an anti-ragging pledge and promised not to indulge in any kind of activities associated with ragging. The Angel College of Engineering and Technology, Tirupur, conducted a national-level workshop on wireless network on its premises recently. Inaugurating the event, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, Assistant General Manager B. Narasimha Moorthy spoke on 'Generation of wireless networks'. Experts from different walks of life gave lectures on topics like 'wireless sensor networks', among other issues. Red Ribbon Club was inaugurated at the Jayanthi Teacher Training Institute in Tirupur recently. The club members would take up social issues and help the people affected with HIV/AIDS. Amutha Kannan in Coimbatore and R Vimal Kumar in Tirupur