Teaching teachers: A workshop on teaching methodology in progress at SRVS National Higher Secondary School, Dharmapuram, Karaikal.    A workshop on ‘Teaching Methodology and Grammar in English' was organised by SRVS National Higher Secondary School, Dharmapuram, Karaikal recently. The workshop conducted by Nalini Ravindran, Principal (retired), National Public School, Chennai, aimed at appraising teachers in teaching methodology, pronunciation, grammar, methods of improving handwriting among the students. She also urged teachers to bring about a change by stimulating the inspiration quotient of young minds. The workshop was presided over by K. Sellaiyan, Chairperson, SRVS National Higher Secondary School. L. Mohana Vidhyavathi, Principal welcomed the gathering. All the teachers of the school participated in the workshop that was sponsored by M/s.Good Luck Publishers Limited, Chennai. Free bicycles were distributed to class XI students of Sri Kailai Subramanya Desika Swamigal Higher Secondary School, Thirupanandal, recently. T. Durai, vice-president of the Thirupanandal Town Panchayat, distributed the cycles to more than 200 students. G. Balachandran, headmaster of the school, presided. K. Jagadeesh, NSS Programme Officer, and others were present. A large number of students displayed various science exhibits at the ‘Science Expo-2010' organised on the theme ‘science and technology for challenges in life' held at the Guru Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Sukkaliyur, Karur recently. The students from classes VI to XII displayed over 150 working models . Thangaraj, correspondent of the school, declared the exhibition open and Gopalakrishnan, principal, presided over the inaugural. A total of 10 students of Al'Ameen Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Kumbakonam, participated in the state-level Yogasana competitions held at Tirunelveli recently. Two students – S. Jayasree (class V A) and J. Mohamed Furkan (UKG B) won first place in their respective categories. Three students D. Salamon (III C), M. Naresh (IV B) and B. Gokula Krishnan (VI C) finished second and two students – T. Shirin Fathima, S. Kanmani Chella and M. Priyanka (all of V A) finished third. M. Priyanka, K. Vidhesha Shetty and A. Suhaira Banu (all of V A) finished fourth. R. Rajalakshmi, school yoga teacher, imparted training to these students. Jirgis, school president, M. Kamaludeen, correspondent, S. Syed Abdul Subahan, principal, and others offered felicitations. Mahatma Gandhi Children's Welfare Association organised the Children's Day celebrations at the Crescent Higher Secondary School, Avaniapuram near Aduthurai recently. Competitions and planting of saplings marked the celebrations. K. Sambasivam, founder of the Foundation, presided over the function. K. Mathiyazhagan, manager, Canara Bank, Mohan, officer, Indian Overseas Bank, A. Sagul Hameed, headmaster of the school, and others offered felicitations. Prizes were distributed to the winners of various competitions. Coconut saplings were presented to the NSS unit of the school and they were planted in the school campus. Elocution and painting competitions marked the AIDS awareness Day held at the Aditya Birla Public Schol, Reddipalayam, Ariyalur district recently. Elocution competition was held in Tamil, English and Hindi languages. Students of various classes participated and displayed their talents. Prizes were distributed to the winners. G. G. Menon, principal, delivered a special address . The birth anniversary of Dr.G.S.Kalyanasundaram, father of G.K.Ramamurthy, founder chairman of Dr.G.S.Kalyanasundaram Memorial School was celebrated as ‘GrandParents Day' recently in the school at Chozan Maligai in Kumbakonam. The grand parents of the children attended the function. The school children presented cultural programmes including song, dance and drama with enthusiasm. Many grand parents shared their memorable moments with their grand children. Contributed by P.V.Srividya and Syed Muthahar Saqaf