championing the cause: Collector M.Vijayakumar, second from left, taking part in the bicycle rally on AIDS awareness in Perambalur on Sunday.    The bicycle relay rally by about 50 volunteers, including from the Red Ribbon Club and NSS students of Perambalur district was flagged off by Collector M.Vijayakumar; Dr.Elangovan, Programme Officer of the District AIDS prevention control unit and other officials at the Collectorate here on Sunday. The relay rally aimed to create awareness of the The Tamil Nadu Trust for Children Affected by HIV/AIDS (TNTCAA). The rally which started from Nagercoil is scheduled to reach Chennai on the World AIDS Day to be observed on December 1 by passing through Tirunelveli, Kovilpatti, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Manapparai, Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Ulundurpet, Tindivanam and Chengalpattu. The TNTCAA which was set up last year under the aegis of the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) has been allotted Rs.5 crore by the Tamil Nadu government. The purpose of the trust is to reach out to children who are vulnerable and provide them with necessary protection and care. The trust is now taking care of the educational, nutritional and other special needs of about 1,600 children in the State. The relay rally will cover nearly 60 km in Perambalur district before it reaches Villupuram. The participants in the rally will distribute pamphlets on HIV and also perform street plays. The rally will halt in Valikandapuram, Thozhudur, Veppur and Irathukdu. As many as 957 people including 50 children with HIV are now in Perambalur district and receiving anti-retroviral therapy through from the Government hospital. In Tiruvarur, Collector M.Chandrasekaran flagged off the AIDS awareness rally, organised by TANSACS on Saturday. According to Shanmugham, co-ordinator of the rally, nearly 50 youngsters started the rally at Ramanathapuram and reached Tiruvarur via Sivaganga and Thanjavur. From Tiruvarur the rally will reach Sirkazhi in Nagapattinam district.