LONG JOURNEY Prakash Raj: ‘I would be lying if I said I knew I'd reach here'   | Photo Credit:  S. SHIVA KUMAR Kannada's own Prakash Raj has made his directorial debut with Naanu Nanna Kanasu. The film, to be released next week, propels the actor into new realms I've woken him up from a deep slumber but he doesn't complain. The baritone is a little jagged with the hectic promotion of his directorial debut, “Naanu Nanna Kanasu”. He's had a fulfilling interaction with old pals. “It is a pleasure meeting old friends,” says Prakash with a satisfied smile. He's shared screen space with all his idols but direction is a dream come true. Prakash Raj has the look of a sailor who's visited exotic places but knows there's none better than his hometown Bangalore. No it's the onward journey of the prodigal son. Bangalore was different when I left and has changed a lot now. It is. A very beautiful moment was captured. I was about to watch the movie and was in the cabin when the photographer caught me. The film is the visual documentation of my perceptions and thoughts. It's made in a language close to my heart. Acting looks so small after I started direction. As an actor I was part of somebody's dream. Direction is a whole new ball game. You're aware of every aspect be it sound or visuals. More than trying to prove a point, direction for me is pushing another boundary. Direction has been fulfilling and satisfying. I now understand directors better. I understand myself better be it my temper threshold or my perception to situations. It was interesting to whip up the same passion amongst the others in the team be it the actors or the crew. You become so involved in the process that you feel everything concerning the film belongs to you. You are breathing life into every frame. I'm able to understand them better. I understand why they are directors. It's one hell of a job. I'm a product of the seventies. Around the eighties I never knew this would be my profession. We didn't know what to do. Today's kids have so many choices. We were constantly in search of an identity. I would be lying if I said I knew I'd reach here. I've stumbled upon certain things. I've realised what I'm capable of in the process of trying to walk. Yes, that's true. I had the common sense to feel that the life of a hero is short. I don't know if it's the literature I was exposed to or my travels as a theatre personality but I always wanted to be an actor. I've proved that actors can be stars too. I wouldn't be comfortable carrying the same hairstyle for 30 years. I'm not pointing fingers but for me acting is beyond entertainment. I don't need to be made-up impeccably just to come out. It depends how you take it. If someone asks me about my divorce or the death of my son I'd say I'm richer with pain. It's a pain I can't share. Shahrukh I'm sure didn't mean it. It was a smart one-liner. You mean to say anyone who's very happy is a bad actor? Pain is a good teacher, yes. Not at all. It was a journey. I wouldn't have done a “Kancheevaram” or met Mani Ratnam. Kannada cinema was kind to me. I had films like “Nagamandala” and “Guddadha Bhoota” and Kannada cinema didn't owe me anything. You'll see Prakash the director and you'll be surprised to see what talent Karnataka has. Everyone has given their best be it the actors or Hamsalekha. My trust has paid off.