HONOURED:Transport Minister K.N. Nehru presenting the Malcolm S. Adhishesaiah Prime Award 2009-10 to Collector T. Soundiah in Tiruchi on Sunday. —   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter TIRUCH: Presentation of the ‘Malcolm S. Adishesaiah Prime Awards' and ‘Malcolm Heritage Awards' formed the highlight of the annual conference of Tamil Nadu Board of Continuing Education (TNBCE). K. N. Nehru, Transport Minister, presented the awards, instituted by the TNBCE. The ‘Malcolm S. Adishesaiah Prime Awards' was conferred on T. Soundiah, District Collector and E.S. Krishnamoorthy, Secretary, Voluntary Health Services, APAC, Chennai; and P. Rajadurai Michael, Senior Social Scientist and a freedom fighter. The 'Malcom Heritage Awards' went to Muthuvelazhagan, Drama Director, Karumuhil Kalai Mandram and Sivan Srinivasan, TV Serial Artiste. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nehru said that conferring these awards would not only be indicative of right identification of services being rendered by various individuals in different fields of activity, but also come as a source of encouragement for them. Mr. Soundiah, in his address, highlighted the role being played by service organisations, especially in supplementing the governmental efforts at times of crisis. He cited a few instances in which individuals and philanthropists in the district had identified and promoted sports talents among the youths. “But for the efforts by non-governmental organisations, the overall development of the district would be a distant dream. These organisations supplement the assistance being sanctioned on a limited scale through the government-sponsored schemes,” he aid. The Collector commended the role being played by the self-help groups in economic development and poverty alleviation in the district. The banks had sanctioned loans to the tune of Rs.75 crore to the women SHGs last year against the target of Rs. 60 crore. Mr. Soundiah urged service organisations to launch intensive campaigns on social issues such as AIDS awareness and other topics in rural pockets. “The AIDS-afflicted persons are being given a step-motherly treatment at their residences in villages,” he said, urging the non-governmental organisations to take up an intensive campaign to tide over these inhibitions. Raja Muthirulandi, Secretary, TNBCE, mooted the formation of a separate organisation to take care of the requirements of school drop-outs. K. Govindaraju, president of TNBCE, spoke on the contribution made by the awardees.