In unison: Women SHG members of Omalur submitted a petition to the Collector in Salem on Monday urging immediate disbursal of revolving funds. — Photo: E. Lakshmi Narayanan    Hundreds of women members of self help groups (SHG) from Omalur, near here, staged a demonstration at the Integrated Collectorate Complex on Monday demanding immediate disbursal of revolving funds and subsidies meant for them. They also submitted a petition to the Collector urging him to take immediate action. Accusing a few Omalur-based Nationalised Banks for denying them the funds, which had already been sanctioned by the government, the women members belonging to Federation of Omalur Block Women SHGs, said that they had been made to wait for more than 2 years to get their funds. The women SHGs had been prompt in repayment and had been in the forefront of economic development of poor women in this backward block. They claimed that their members had been working in the field against various social issues such as child marriage, female infanticide and HIV in close association with government agencies. Many of them were being used for enumeration too. Poor women including destitutes, widows etc were benefitted through the SHG movement to which the Deputy Chief Minister had been personally involved. All government schemes were taken to the rural masses through them, they said. “But still a few nationalised banks have been refusing to sanction the funds to us. In fact nearly Rs. 90 lakhs of Thadco funds meant for us has been returned without sanctioning,” said one of the agitators and a member of SHG. The officials in these banks had been rude to the woman members whenever they went to seek the funds. Hence they urged the District administration to open an exclusive section for women SHG members in the nationalised banks including State Bank of India at Omalur. The reluctance on the part of banks had encouraged private money lenders to open their shops in Omalur and its surrounding areas. This they feared would take the women back to poverty and exploitation.