Religion  Discourse by Sudarshana Sharma, Adhyatma Prakasha Karyalaya, Thyagarajanagar, 9.30 a.m.  Discourse by K.S. Narayanacharya, Shirdi Sai Mandir, 14 {+t} {+h} Cross, Sampige Road, Malleswaram, 6 p.m.  Discourse by Sri Rama Vitalacharya, Vijayaranga, 17 {+t} {+h} Cross, Vijayanagar, 6 p.m.  Sri Rangam Srimad Andavan Ashramam, Sri Andal Rangamannar Temple, Garuthman Park, 11 a.m. Culture  Vasantothsava, Kannada drama, “Dharmasangrama”, by Mahadeshwara Krupaposhita Nataka Mandali, 9 a.m.; Madhava Vijaya, Chaluvaraya Krupaposhita Nataka Mandali, 11.30 a.m.; Prachanda Ravana by Jaibhuvaneshwari Balaga, Kunigal, 2 p.m.; and “Tande” by BEL Kannada Kalavidaru, Ravindra Kalakshetra, J.C. Road, 4.30 p.m.  “Kalaradhana”, exhibition of paintings by Shakuntala Jain, Kumara Krupa Road, 11 a.m.  Convergence, an exhibition of drawings, paintings and water colours by Nasreen Mohamedi and Yogeh Rawal, The Presidency, 82, St. Mark's Road, noon.  Exhibition of paintings by upcoming artists, No. 66, Lavelle Road, 10 a.m. General  Launch of Nightingales Trace (an ID-Bracelet System for Trading Missing Elders with Dementia) and Nightingales Track (a mobile tracking system for Safety of Elders), and workshop on Dementia – Risk Reduction, Governor H.R. Bhardwaj chief Guest, Additional Commissioner, Law and Order, Bangalore City Police, Gopal Hosur, participate, No. 8P6, 3 {+r} {+d} A Cross, East of NGEF Layout, Kasturinagar, Banaswadi 10.30 a.m.  Bhoomi puja and foundation laying ceremony of Chitrakala Parishat College of Fine Arts new building by Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa, Ganakallu Grama, Kengeri Hobli, 9.30 a.m.  “Launch of Super Power?” authored by Raghav Bahl, Reliance TimeOut, 74, Ground Floor, Prestige Feroze Building, Cunningham Road, 6.30 p.m.  “Disordering Durable Democracies in India's Northeast”, talk by Mmhonlumo Kikon, Human Rights Activist, Nagaland, Indian Institute of World Culture, B.P. Wadia Road, Basavangudi, 5 p.m.  Launching ceremony of CorpBank Festival Bonanza on Home Loans, vehicle loans, term deposit and corp classic savings account by Minister for Large and Medium Industries Murugesh Nirani, chairman and managing director of the bank Ramnath Pradeep presides, Ball Room I, The Taj West End, Race Course Road, 2 p.m.  95 {+t} {+h} fasting day of Sadhvi Jayamalaji Jiji, Jain Sthanak Bhavan, Vijayanagar, 7.30 a.m.  Talk on “An insight to patents in a knowledge economy – A focus on US patients and Technology Market”, by Anand K. Sharma, Louis M. Troilo and Rajiv Gupta of Finnegan, Henderson, Washington, Institution of Engineers (India), Karnataka State Centre, No. 3, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Veedhi, 5 p.m.  Presentation on “Building sector in relation to urban governance”, to mark 150 {+t} {+h} birth anniversary celebration of Bharat Ratna Sir M. Visvesvaraya, builder and former president of CREDAI A. Balakrishna Hegde inaugurates, advisor to Chief Minister on Urban Affairs A. Ravindra, chief guest, No. 3, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Veedhi, 5.30 p.m.  Social Awareness Week, Walk-a-thon HIV Aids, J.C. Road campus to Cubbon Park, 6.30 a.m.; documentary on HIV-AIDS, Conference Hall, J.C. Road, V.V. Puram and Jayanagar campus, 8.30 a.m.  Felicitation to national film award winners, Information Minister Kattasubramanya Naidu participates, Secretary, Department of Kannada and Culture and Information, B.R. Jayaramaraje Urs, chief guest, Priyadarshini Hall, Badami House, near Hudson Circle, 4 p.m.  Vichaarmanthan – an interaction with global and India visionaries on “Is India Rising?”, Samuel Paul, chairman, Public Affairs Centre, Bangalore, resource person, college premises, K. Narayanapura, Kothanur, 3 p.m.