There has been a continued increase in the incidence of women and men who are HIV positive marrying innocent men and women in Kanyakumari district. A survey in this connection had already been conducted by two HIV positive networks including Kanyakumari District Rehabilitation Centre of the HIV/AIDS and Kanyakumari district women positive network recently. The network members had already identified HIV positive men concealing their status and making attempts to marry innocent girls in different parts of the district. They had so far stopped two such cases through timely intervention and saved innocent girls from being trapped. However, HIV positive network members faced a lot of challenges from the families concerned as well as from the community. In the case of one person from Arumanai village, the Deputy Director of Health, M. Madushoodhanan had to intervene and contact District AIDS Control Society Officer Stella to take appropriate action. The positive network members, with the support of Ms. Stella, contacted the family concerned and persuaded them to mount pressure on that particular person to under go HIV test in Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam. Since the test proved positive, the marriage was stopped at the neck of the moment. Stalin, president, positive network of men, claimed that there were many such unethical marriages going on. The positive and consoling aspect of these tragic tales was that the network accommodated the victims once they realized their status. Regarding such acts, Dr. Madushoodhanan said that the families should make it mandatory that both the bride and bridegroom should test for HIV before marriage as is the case in the Western countries. In the wake of such revelations made by the People living with HIV/AIDS positive networks, the representative of various non-governmental organisations had already submitted a memorandum to the District Collector, Rajendra Ratnoo. The Director of Vasantham trust, C. Chandra Kala, pointed out that they were sensitising the high school students during the stigma reduction programmes held in the schools to persuade their families to ask for the HIV status of the brides and bridegrooms before marriage. Stories focusing on the theme were uploaded in the website of the trust. It had also been decided to conduct social interaction programmes in the villages in which People living with HIV/AIDS from the positive network and self-help group women socialised with each other in sharing their stigma. During such interaction programs, the SHG women were sensitised to go in for ‘HIV matching' along with other match-making criteria before fixing matrimonial alliance. The Government should come forward to bring a legislation making the declaration of HIV status by both parties mandatory before registering the marriage, said a cross-section of representatives from various non-governmental organisations.