THE HUB Café point scores on many points   | Photo Credit:  SHIVANI YADAV PGDAV COLLEGE THE HANGOUT: Café point RUSH HOUR: Brunch time What's to love? In contrast to the maddening crowd of the Ring Road outside, the spacious green lawns all around the college make for a picturesque sight. From a humble beginning more than 50 years ago, the campus shifted to its present prime location in 1971. Right at the front gate is a coffee stall. Quite close to it is the teachers' parking lot. This and the vicinity is called the café point, agreeably the most happening place in the college. The adjacent lawn is called the café ground. There are circular cement benches here, fondly called the Jantar Mantar. “Everybody who is anybody in the college has to be at the café point. I met my gang for the first time here and the location is such that if you see a teacher you can easily escape out!,” says Kartikey, a third year student. The college is a three-storeyed building with spacious rooms and a big library. Another third year student Vasudha expresses, “Inside the building, there are only classes and lectures that we don't like. Even the doors and windows of the girls' common room are always open which is why we prefer to be in a quiet place like one of the lawns.” The sports lawns at the back of the building are often abuzz with sports events. Benches have been placed under the trees where it is breezy and shady enabling them to cheer their favourite teams in comfort. The campus has guava and orange trees and when the fruits are ripe, the few naughty ones cannot resist taking aim at the luscious bounties. What's not to be? However, not all is well in the students' paradise as the coffee stall is going to be shifted elsewhere very soon. And till then it will be kept shut depriving the students of their staple diet of coffee and Maggie, leaving them with no option of having anything proper to eat within the campus. “The canteen is usually a deserted place as the food offered is not tasty and hygienic. We have to carry our own boxes from home. And that's half the fun of college gone! ,” sighs Parul, a final year student. Alternatives Let down by the poor condition of the canteen, the students find solace in the street vendors stationed at the front gate. Chhole kulche, bhelpuri and ice-cream stalls are well-positioned. They generally carry the food to the lawn behind the classes, another hot-spot for them. “Once I was sitting there with a friend not aware that my class was going on right in front. Only later did I come to know that my professor could see me very clearly through the window and I was caught,” laughs Kartikey.