Healthy: Ashok Chacko, Head of the Department of Gastro-Intestinal Sciences, CMC Hospital, speaking at the inaugural function of an awareness camp on the CMC premises in Vellore on Thursday.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent VELLORE: Prevention of Hepatitis-B through immunisation costs only a few hundreds of rupees, whereas if a person contracts the disease, he or she may have to spend about Rs.1 lakh for getting cured, according to Ashok Chacko, Head of the Department of Gastro-Intestinal Sciences of the Christian Medical College (CMC) and Hospital, Vellore. Speaking at the inauguration of a three-day Hepatitis-B Prevention Camp organised by the CMC Hospital under its Health & Wellness Programme at the car park area of the hospital premises here on Thursday, Dr. Chacko said that Hepatitis-B is more dangerous than Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). A person who had contracted the disease would die within 10 years if he or she did not take treatment. “But the danger lies in the fact that most people having the disease would not know that they are having it for nearly five years from the onset. By the time they come to the hospital, it is too late”. If a person gets himself immunised early, he can prevent the disease by spending just a few hundreds of rupees, he said. C. Gnanasekaran, Vellore MLA, who inaugurated the programme by getting himself immunised against Hepatitis-B with the first of three doses, requested the medical community to develop an oral vaccine for Hepatitis-B in view of the general undesirability of getting injections. He requested the CMC to double its annual intake for the MBBS course from 60 to 120 in order to meet the increasing demand for dedicated doctors. George M. Chandy, Professor of Gastro-Enterology said that the Hepatitis-B Prevention Camp was being conducted under the National Hepatitis-B Programme and the AHBAAS (A Hepatitis B Awareness And Safety) Initiative, which aims to create awareness in the country about Hepatitis-B prevention and strategies. The use of safe blood and blood products, safe sexual practices and avoiding injections are some of the ways of avoiding the disease. Vaccination ensures the prevention of Hepatitis-B. Till recently, the Hepatitis-B vaccine was expensive. The CMC Hospital has been able to procure the vaccine at a subsidised rate of Rs.15 per dose. Three doses would have to be given to a child, one at birth, the second at one month and the third at six months to ensure complete protection. Adults too would have to take three doses, the second dose being taken one month after the first dose, and the third six months after the first dose. The AHBAAS Initiative has completed the immunisation of 1.25 lakh persons throughout the country. The CMC planned to achieve the goal of total immunisation of the population in Vellore district by 2014 under the AHBAAS Initiative. Mr. Gnanasekaran released the Hepatitis-B kit. R. Chandrasekaran, president, Udhavum Ullangal received the first kit. J.B. Peter, General Superintendent, CMC Hospital and Eapen, consultant hepetologist spoke. The highlights of the camp are a health check-up for Rs.10 per head (including blood sugar test and ECG) and Hepatitis-B immunisation at Rs.15 per dose. Departments such as cardiology, neurology, nephrology, radiology, Community Health and Development (CHAD) and Rural Unit for Health and Social Affairs (RUHSA) have also put up stalls to educate the visitors on the various aspects of health. The camp would be open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. till January 23.