BEEHIVE OF ACTIVITIES: S.S.Colony police station in the city. — Photo: G. Moorthy    The S.S. Colony police station is “big” not only with respect to areas under its jurisdiction but on many other parameters — frequent crimes keep the police personnel on their toes, chain-snatching incidents have become common and burglaries, house break-ins and murder or attempt-to-murder cases are not unusual to this station, police say. In the recent months, a youth was brutally murdered and the body was chopped and packed inside a refrigerator at a house in Ellis Nagar that falls under its limits. A woman was found dead in an apartment in S.S. Colony. The police did solve the crimes and secured the accused. With rise in population and crimes — petty and grave — increasing, officers suggest bifurcation of this police station. “This may certainly give the station house officer and team a big relief. Focus on crime prevention and effective maintenance of law and order will be possible,” they say. The S.S. Colony police station's jurisdiction spreads to as far as Palanganatham junction, the entire Bypass Road, Doraiswamy Nagar, Bodi Line, Sammattipuram and Virattipathu. When the station was formed, there was very little movement on Bypass Road. But, today, this road alone requires traffic police at many points of this accident-prone stretch, police say. Another station that requires to be bifurcated is Sellur police station. An officer who served as an Inspector at this station a few years ago recalled that on many occasions it was tough managing the situation. The station would have complaints ranging from petty crimes, domestic disputes and brawls in bars. Suicide cases are high in this jurisdiction. Areas such as Aruldosspuram and Ponmeni could be separated from these stations, officers feel. Commissioner of Police P. Balasubramanian said that every police station in the city had been provided with the sanctioned strength. Similarly, officer level posts at the station level were also being filled up. There were proposals to bifurcate some stations. “Anything that would help improve administration and serve people in a better way will be considered. We will get necessary approval from the government in this regard,” Mr. Balasubramanian said.