Patients across the State are unable to get themselves tested for HIV/AIDS in government hospitals. Reason: unavailability of testing kits. Testing has come to a halt in the past 10 days in all government-run Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTC), including Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bangalore. A few centres that still have the kits are testing only emergency cases. This when the State testing centres need at least 4,000 kits a month. “Many patients are upset. They shout at us and ask us if they have to use a politician's influence,” said V. Prakash, counsellor at Bowring Hospital's ICTC. “There is shortage across the State. There are 565 ICTCs for the HIV-affected where they are tested for free,” said Fayaz Ahmed, an HIV/AIDS counsellor in an ICTC in Ramanagaram. Testing kits are crucial because the calculated projection of the number of HIV-infected in the State this year is 2.75 lakh, say activists. “Only about 1.4 lakh people have been tested at the ICTCs from 2002 till date. Many who suspect they have the disease come only reluctantly for testing. The shortage forces their being turned away, and 80 per cent never turn up again,” said an HIV activist. “Each of the 565 centres has to test 500 cases every month and we were meeting at least half the target on an average. Now even that is not possible,” he said. The shortage has badly hit the northern districts of Bijapur, Belgaum and Bagalkot. In the case of Mysore, people have been getting themselves tested in private hospitals for the past two months. Though the shortage has not affected private hospitals, many people in the poorer bracket cannot afford testing in these private laboratories. M.B. Rudrappa, Joint Director of the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS), acknowledged the delay in supply of kits from NACO (National AIDS Control Organisation) this month. “It is not an emergency or an epidemic. People can be asked to come back later,” he said. But counsellors are sceptical as there has been a shortage on and off for the past two months.