Team spirit: Students of Maris Stella College participating in a signature campaign on HIV/AIDS awareness programme in Vijayawada on Tuesday.    Girls are being urged to ‘be bold'. “There is a need for you to be bold. Be bold enough to talk about HIV or AIDS, to accept ‘positive' patients, to say no to peer pressure…,” said T.V.S.N. Sastry, Additional District Medical and Health Officer and District AIDS Control Officer, on Tuesday. Addressing students of Maris Stella College at an AIDS awareness programme organised by the Department of Zoology on the eve of World AIDS Day (December 1), Dr. Sastry spoke at length about the ‘Be Bold' campaign kicked off by the AP State AIDS Control Society (APSACS). “The objective of the drive is to encourage people to accept reality and act in a pragmatic way,” he said. Sharing with the students some of the innovative and effective steps initiated by the APSACS to contain the spread of the virus, he said the slogan of ‘A…B…C' coined by the society had become widely popular. “‘A' stands for abstinence from sex before marriage, ‘B' for be faithful to your partner and ‘C' for consistent and correct use of condom, which is mainly for high-risk groups,” he explained. Dr. Sastry also educated the girls on the general precautions to be taken while dealing with patients suffering from different ailments, besides sharing information on the degree of prevalence of AIDS in society, how and why it was coming down, what kind of medical services were available for patients afflicted with the virus and how best to make use of them. Medical director of Vasavya Mahila Mandali P. Deeksha cleared several doubts lingering the young minds. NSS volunteers of the college installed a question box on the college campus a couple of days ago for students to drop their HIV/AIDS-related doubts in the box. A majority of the girls were eager to know about the pre-marital testing. Ms. Deeksha suggested that based on mutual understanding, the couple must opt for the test to clear any possible doubts in their partners' minds. Then there was this misconception that the virus victimised only people from slum areas. “It depends on individual behaviour. HIV is equally prevalent across society,” said Ms. Deeksha. The Krishna district AIDS Programme Manager John Naicker also spoke. Later, students became part of a signature campaign against stigma and discrimination against HIV patients.