 Aashayen  John Abraham, Anaitha Nair, Sonal Sehgal  Nagesh Kukunoor After delivering a couple of duds, Nagesh Kukunoor returns to familiar turf with a film that promises hope and sunshine in shadows but fails to deliver the desired ‘Anand'! One of the first directors of this generation who took the ‘filmy' label off our cinema with commercial success, Nagesh is adept at creating heart-warming characters. Here, he has crafted Anaitha Nair as one. Anaitha showed the spark in “Chak De” but here as the terminally ill cancer patient she has got the opportunity to blossom and her effortless performance leaves us spell bound. But she is the only bright spot in a film that goes all out to manipulate your tear ducts with a subject that has been tried many times before. John Abraham plays Rahul, a compulsive gambler, who gets a shock when he discovers that he is suffering from lung cancer and has only three months to live. His live-in girl friend, Nafisa, offers to stand by him, but overrun by self pity, Rahul leaves for a hospice, leaving behind a substantial portion of his earnings for Nafisa. The rest of the film unfolds at the picturesque hospice by the sea, where the cocky Rahul learns his lessons of life. Nagesh has invested in moments and after a point as these moments become rehearsed rather in your face, you get his trick – the idea of manipulating the audience to reach out for the handkerchief. He succeeds a few times particularly the scenes between John and the politically incorrect Anaitha looking for company are a treat to watch but as a whole we realise that's not the amorphous Nagesh at play. Nagesh's Govinda (Ashwin Chitale) has a ring of supernatural but it is a trick that is past its expiry date, so is organising the family reunion for an old man deserted by his folks. Farida Jalal, as an AIDS patient facing untouchability seems to have jumped straight from the soppy scenes of Karan Johar's world and the smart idea of bringing the Indiana Jones angle gets tediously long to sustain attention. John gives his best, but it's not enough. The good news is Nagesh is back on track, but the sad part is he has yet to find his uplifting ways that once defined him. ANUJ KUMAR