Although Karnataka is doing well in implementing the Union Government's Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP), the effort needs to be stepped up in the six under-performing districts, especially Gulbarga and Bijapur, according to E.V. Ramana Reddy, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare. Speaking after launching the Round 9 Global Fund grant for Karnataka for AIDS, TB and Malaria, the Health Secretary said the prevalence of tuberculosis in six districts, including Bidar, Gulbarga, Bijapur, Bagalkot and Uttara Kannada, was high. “We may be good or better in controlling TB in the entire State, but we are definitely not the best. We still have to achieve a lot to match the target fixed by the Union Government,” he pointed out. Population Services International (PSI), Catholic Health Association of India (CHAI) and Catholic Association of Karnataka (CAK) are jointly implementing the Global Fund Round 9 project in 18 districts of Karnataka. Lauding the services of civil society organisations in controlling various diseases in the country, Mr Reddy sought the help of PSI, CHAI and CAK in strengthening RNTCP in the underperforming districts. State TB Officer Kumaraswamy Lal S., who admitted that lack of coordination among TB officers of the neighbouring States on the progress of cross-referred patients had hit RNTCP, said all the officials handling the programme had been asked to maintain a record of phone numbers and addresses of all those detected with TB. Director-General of CHAI Sebastin Qusepparampil said the funding by the international Global Fund Board — in response to a proposal by India — is to support the Government's efforts in eradicating TB in Karnataka. Recently, the Union Government signed an agreement with the board under which it would receive grants of Rs. 609.9 crore from the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) to support AIDS and TB control programmes. The project would broaden the scope of civil society involvement in TB services through an enduring national partnership to link RNTCP to other stakeholders through national and State coordination committees, he said.