GREEN DRIVE: (Clockwise from top left) NCC cadets planting tree saplings on the premises of Kshatriya Vidhyasala Higher Secondary School, Virudhunagar. The junior basketball team of V. S. K. D. Nadar Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Sivakasi, which won a district-level tournament. The hockey team of SBK Higher Secondary School, Aruppukottai, which won the divisional hockey tournament. Students of Sri Vasavi Matriculation Higher Secondary School, who participated in AIDS awareness competitions.    NCC Day was celebrated by cadets at Kshatriya Vidhyasala Higher Secondary School, Virudhunagar, with various competitions for students. J. Prakash welcomed the gathering. School secretary A. S. K. R. J. Saravanan delivered the presidential address. Chief guest Captain V.G. Subramanian, Commanding Officer, 2(TN) Naval Unit NCC, advised the cadets to continue their studies in National Defence Academy after schooling. He also gave away prizes to winners of competitions. Army, Navy, Air wing cadets performed a cultural programme. R. Mareeswaran proposed a vote of thanks. On the eve of NCC Day celebration, the cadets took out a Ban Plastic' rally. It was flagged off by S. Chandramohan, Headmaster. A tree sapling plantation programme was also held. Junior basketball team of V.S.K.D. Nadar Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Sivakasi, won the tournament conducted by Virudhunagar Educational District Boys, Girls and mixed, High, Higher Secondary and Matriculation Schools' Athletic Association recently. The management, principal and teachers applauded the winners. The hockey team of SBK Higher Secondary School, Aruppukottai, won the divisional hockey tournament in the under-19 category conducted in Sivaganga on December 3. In the final, SBK Higher Secondary School beat KVS Higher Secondary School, Virudhunagar, 4-1. The team qualified to participate in the State-level Bharatiar Day Games to be held at Vellore. School secretary C.M.V. Chandra Sekaran, president P.R. Ashok Kumar and the Headmaster, R. Nelson Durairaj, congratulated the team for the victory. Competitions were held for students of Sri Vasavi Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Dindigul, to create awareness of AIDS on December 2. Red Ribbon Club organiser Amudha Selvam briefed the students about AIDS and its prevention. Students took an oath to play a vital role in making India AIDS-free. Winners of competitions were awarded prizes by N.V. Shanthi, the Principal. A sapling plantation programme, as part of ‘Green and Fertile Dindigul' campaign, was inaugurated at the school by Rajinikanth, municipal councillor. Students also collected Rs 55, 800 as contribution to the Rotary International's Child-for-Child programme aimed at creating awareness of polio eradication. Senior girls hockey team of Muthiah Alagappa Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Kottaiyur, won the zone-level tournament by beating Aruppukottai zone in the final. It qualified to represent the zone in the State-level tournament. The team was congratulated by Chief Educational Officer Chellam. .