Students of Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science engaged in a mock board meeting as part of a seminar on corporate excellence.    Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology organised a two-day orientation programme as bridge course for the first year MBA and MCA students. Wing Commander (Retd.) Pas Raj, Project Manager and MR. Covai, Property Centre (I) Private Limited, inaugurated the bridge course and spoke on traits that were required for future managers and engineers to be successful in their careers. The volunteers of the Red Ribbon Club of Government College of Technology organised a lecture on “HIV – Facts and Myths”. R. Sundararajan, Principal of the college, inaugurated the programme. Dr. Mahadevan of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and Meenakshi of IUDS were the resource persons. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering of PA College of Engineering and Technology organised a one-day technical workshop on “Troubleshooting in PCs”. Representatives from Accel Academy Limited were the resource persons. The Association of Mathematics of Sree Narayana Guru College was inaugurated by G. Girija, Assistant Professor, Government Arts College. She spoke on the topic “Applications of Discrete Mathematics”. The Undergraduate and Postgraduate Associations of the Departments of Electronics of CMS College of Science and Commerce launched its association activities. The activities included the inauguration, personality development programme, eco-friendly awareness programme and technical symposium. N. Nagaraju, Deputy General Manager (NWP & Trans), BSNL, inaugurated the symposium and spoke on 3G, 4G, next generation switches, etc., in the tele-communication industry. GRD Institute of Management conducted the CEO's Word Series on “Leadership Theory – From Great Man Theory to Transformational Leadership”. It was conducted by Sri Kandiah, vice-chairman, Non-Director, Hampshire NHS Trust, the U.K. He spoke with emphasis on the fact that information never led to transformation. People could be trained to be good leaders, but the level of excellence depended on the efforts of the individuals alone. The Department of English of NGM College, Pollachi, inaugurated its Literary Association recently. Noel Joseph Irudhayaraj, former Professor of English, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi, was the chief guest. The Department of Software Systems of Kovai Kalaimagal College of Arts and Science conducted a seminar on “Effective Project Work in Computer Science”. Ganesh Natarajan, Founder and Director, Hayagreeva Technologies, Bangalore, spoke on the various stages of development of preparing a project and executing the same with total involvement. The Department of Corporate Secretaryship with Computer Applications of Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science conducted a State-level seminar on “Corporate Excellence”. M. Manuneethi Cholan, Registrar of Companies, Tamil Nadu, inaugurated the seminar. Experts conducted sessions on capital markets and share trading. Mock board meetings were also held. The Association of the ECE Department of KTVR Knowledge Park for Engineering and Technology conducted a technical symposium to bring out the creativity in students. Ravi Natarajan, Consulting Manager, SAS Institute, Canada Inc., was the chief guest. Students came out with many projects. Paper presentation and other events like quiz, and other brain teasers also formed part of the symposium. The activities of the Electronics and Communication Department of Hindusthan Institute of Technology were inaugurated recently. S. Benedict Biju, Senior Deputy Manager, PDE-E Medical, Pricol Limited, Plant – 1, was the chief guest. He spoke on “Lab View”. The Students of the School of Management of Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology organised a visit to the Uzhavar Santhai at R.S. Puram. They interacted with the sellers and the customers. A study on supply chain practices was carried out. Bharathiar University organised a campus placement at the Coimbatore Institute of Management and Technology for the students of the affiliated colleges of the university. More than 6,000 students from Coimbatore and nearby districts participated. As many as 400 students were issued appointment orders. Vice-Chancellor C. Swaminathan gave away the order letters to the students. A workshop on “Environmental Awareness and its Preservation” was organised by the Management Association of Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science. J. Balamurugan, Chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry, Coimbatore, was the chief guest. He stressed the importance of a plastic-free environment and water conservation. Kalidadasan, president of OSAI, spoke on conservation of forests. The Association of the Postgraduate Department of Computer Applications of Vidyasagar College of Arts and Science was inaugurated recently. G. Satheeskumar, Technical Consultant, HP, Bangalore, spoke on “How to Get Ready to Meet the IT Requirements”. He explained the skills required to face interviews that were conducted to enter the IT industry. Two placement drives to recruit fresh engineers who had passed out in 2010 was held in Kumaraguru College of Technology. Representatives from Apollo Tyres and Mind Tree Limited visited the college to recruit for their human resource needs. Engineers from various branches attended the drives. Apollo Tyres selected 23 engineers and Mind Tree selected 33 engineers. The first-year courses of Sriguru Institute of Technology were launched by K. Karunakaran, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University of Technology, Coimbatore. He said that unless there was a proper system for evaluating the institutions, quality could not be delivered. It included periodic monitoring of the system, identification of the problem areas and finding out remedial measures and taking necessary actions to improve the efficiency of the system. The graduation day of Park's College, Tirupur, was held recently. C. Swaminathan, Vice-Chancellor of Bharathiar University, was the chief guest. As many as 419 undergraduate and 55 postgraduate students received degree certificates. Seven students received university ranks. A HR Meet on “Campus to Corporate – Opportunities and Challenges” for fresh graduates was held at Dr. NGP Institute of Technology. G.V. Suresh, Director, HR, Sonic Wall Inc., Bangalore, was the chief guest. Various sessions related to the topic was held by experts from the field. The Department of Women's Studies and Department of Food Service Management and Dietetics of Avinashilingam Deemed University for Women organised a workshop on “First Aid and Safety Measures”. Noel Jeyaraj, lecturer from St. John Ambulance, conducted the training programme. It aimed at creating awareness on first aid and safety measures that were instrumental in saving lives. The Tata Consultancy Services Limited award ceremony was held at Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. Awards for the best student and best student project were given away. T.S. Rangarajan, Principal Consultant and Enterprise Architect for Nextgen Enterprise Solution, Tata Consultancy Services Limited, was the chief guest. He gave away the best student award to Himanshu Kumar, B. Tech. Information Technology, and the best project award to CMMS – Cloud Management and Monitoring Suite by Gowtham S., Ramkishore M.V., Suriya P., and Raghunath, Computer Science Engineering students. A workshop on “Banking, Financial Services and Insurance Sector” was organised by the Department of Management Studies of the Karpagam College of Engineering. N. Balakrishnan, former Deputy General Manager of NABARD, spoke on banking challenges and issues in the post-recession period. Experts from banks and insurance companies conducted sessions as resource persons. Amutha Kannan