Chairman of the NHRC K.G. Balakrishnan, Collector J. Syamala Rao, Police Commissioner J. Purnachandra Rao and National Bar Council member D.V. Subba Rao at the national launching function of ‘Training of Youth on Human Rights' in the city on Friday. — K.R. DEEPAK    Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission K.G. Balakrishnan has called upon the youth to take the lead in the protection of human rights and thereby participate in the progress of the nation. Participating as chief guest in the national launching function of ‘Training of Youth on Human Rights' here on Friday, he said that one-third of India's population belong to the 15–45 age group. “The youth of today are educated and competitive. They are not oblivious of the challenges facing the nation and they should shoulder the responsibility of nation building and participate in development,” he said. Mr. Balakrishnan described poverty as the biggest violation of human rights. Referring to complaints of large-scale irregularities in the supply of essential commodities through the Public Distribution System in Orissa and Maharashtra, he said that the NHRC had taken note of the same and issued guidelines to ensure proper distribution of foodgrains. Global Positioning System (GPS) was introduced to prevent diversion of vehicles carrying the essential commodities and biometric thumb impression was being taken to ensure that the rations reach the intended beneficiaries.The NHRC Chairman said that the commission had received 10 lakh complaints of violation of human rights till 2010. This year alone 78,000 complaints were received from various corners of the country. He said 28 backward districts (one in each State) in the country were selected for enforcement of human rights. NHRC member P.C. Sharma said that inequality was the root cause of the backwardness of the nation. He called for eradication of social evils, discrimination against women, SCs and STs. Director (programmes) of NYK Sanghathan, Delhi, C.S. Pran said that NYKS and NHRC were working together for upholding human rights. NYKS was also involved in creating awareness in areas like HIV and AIDS, against child labour, voter awareness campaign and health education.In his inaugural address, district Collector J. Syamala Rao said that the Indian Constitution captures the essence of the Human Rights Act. Director (AP Zone) of NYKS J.P.S. Negi also spoke. Police Commissioner J. Purnachandra Rao, Vice-Chancellor of AP University of Law Y. Satyanarayana and member of the National Bar Council D.V. Subba Rao were among those who attended.