on a mission Stefania Fernandez Photo: V. Sreenivasa Murthy    S he's 19, and rules the universe. She's stunningly tall, has a free apartment in New York city, travels the world, and gets the best of shoes and clothes, and loads of money. And, did I mention a glittering tiara? But then, Stefania Fernandez isn't your “average” 19-year-old. She comes from that part of the world — Venezuela — where beauty queens are waiting in the wings every year to dazzle on the world pedestal. The bright-eyed Miss Universe 2009, who got into the pageant circuit when she was 16, soon after school, is in India creating awareness on HIV/AIDS and female foeticide. She is shepherded by Sanjana Jon, the fashion designer, on a Miss Universe AIDS Awareness Tour to Asia. How is this awareness essentially spread? Says Sanjana Jon: “We are creating awareness through the media first. And, we're also making a music video on the lines of ‘Miley Sur Mera Tumhara' with Sajid-Wajid, featuring celebrities.” Beauty queens have weighty responsibilities, such as spreading awareness on catastrophic issues, resting on their delicate shoulders. One is also not very new to staid “I want to bring world peace” proclamations from beauty queens past. It's only natural then to know how the year has fared for Stefania. “It's been great. When I started, I didn't speak any English, and Donald Trump (owner of the Miss Universe Organisation) said ‘You must learn English', and so I started classes…then, I began to travel the world. But, there are so many countries that speak Spanish I haven't been able to practice my English, and now, I know so many cultures and I'm speaking about HIV/AIDS wherever I go,” she rattles off. She won her first title of Miss Venezuela at 17. Then one year of “preparation”, and she was Miss Universe. Or at least, that's how simple she makes it out to be. What is it about Venezuela that it is able to produce finalists and crown-winners so often? “It's not a big secret,” she laughs. “It's just that we prepare a lot. It's so important, it's so huge…” Did Stefania aspire to be Miss Universe all along, right from her school days? “I was tall and wanted to contest for Miss Venezuela…but my mum always said ‘Study, study. Finish school'.” Once she finished school, she moved to the big city — the capital Caracas. And, from there, she got on the beauty pageant bandwagon. Venezuela is also known for the large number of plastic surgeries its women undergo. And, many beauty queens have been known to go under the knife. Should beauty be judged despite being tampered with? “To those people who have had surgery, I'd say, ‘Okay good'. But, it's not only in Venezuela that it's happening. Miss Universe is not about finding one girl who is beautiful; it's about finding one girl with a personality.” Here's a contest-winning answer! BHUMIKA K.