Reaching out: Cultural team undertaking a campaign in Dindigul on Tuesday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter DINDIGUL: Dillu Dura, a campaign to motivate those vulnerable to HIV to come forward and access the Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre, was launched here on Tuesday. The Collector, M. Vallalar, flagged off the mobile van here on Tuesday. The mobile van, with a trained cultural team, would campaign in 12 villages in six blocks in 12 days. The campaign would spread the message that those who were at risk of contracting the infection must approach one of these centres. Making the public well informed was the best method to enable them understand the risk and come forward to access the services without stigma. “Only then we will be able to prevent new infections and control the epidemic,” the Collector added. All efforts were taken to reverse the epidemic by 2012. Prime aim was to prevent new infections and promote people who were vulnerable to HIV to voluntarily undergo testing and other services, he added. In Dindigul, 1.03 lakh people were examined and 1,583 people who needed ART treatment were put on it to extend their life span. Besides, 34,347 pregnant women underwent voluntary HIV testing this year of which 70 were found positive. The positive cases were linked to Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission Programme that played a key role in preventing the HIV transmission from the mother to the child, said T. Jayabal, Joint Director of Health Services. The Dillu Dura campaign was initiated by Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS). Twelve vans were on the move in 22 districts to provide people with information about various services and how they could be accessed. The campaign team would go from village to village in the State in the next 35 days in two phases offering information about counselling and testing centres. One team would cover one village, a college and one hot spot in a day. TANSACS had plans to cover 600 villages along with 200 colleges and a few hotspots at villages. In the first phase, the team would cover 12 districts in the next 13 days and in the second phase, 14 districts between March 14 and April 1. At present, 27 Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres at government headquarter hospitals and medical college hospitals provided these services.