Vels University vice-chancellor S. Ramachandran along with students-volunteers from U.S. Universities and from Vels University during the workshop on HIV/AIDS conducted at Pallavaram.    FIVE STUDENTS Pragadish Prabhu, Srivatsan, Subramanyan, Adithya, Praveni and two teachers Anandhi and Veena of Shri Natesan Vidyasala, Mannivakkam, were selected for attending a week-long conference and training programme at New Delhi, on Space Science and Asteroid Hunt organised by Science Popularisation Association for Communicators and Educators (SPACE) in association with International Astronomical Research Collaboration (IASC), USA, recently. Earlier, the school bagged the National level championship in various competitions conducted by the SPACE and IASC on Space Science & Technology. Hence, the students and teachers were extended a special invitation to participate in the training programme and conference. During the training session, the students were trained on identification of new Asteroids and NEO (Near Earth Objects) using the image set sent by IASC. In the month and a half long project the students have successfully confirmed the presence of two NEOs, the first school to do so in the entire South India to identify two NEOs. “The school is looking forward for more such hunts,” said principal Gayathri Ramachandran. *** TIRUMALA TIRUPATHI Devasthanams conducted Dasa Sahitya — preachings of Haridas about bakthi towards Lord Vishnu — on July 2 at Shivalaya Auditorium, Vels University, Pallavaram. Nearly 850 Children from Vels Vidyashram and other institutions, viz., Sri Sankara Vidyalaya, Pammal, Sri Sankara Vidyalaya, Keelkattalai, Sri Sankara Vidyalaya, Thiruvanmiyur, Chellammal Vidyalaya, Chettinad Vidyashram, Hari Shri Vidyalaya, Hindu Senior Secondary School, Indira Nagar, Hindu Senior Secondary School, Adyar, Government Higher Secondary School, Perambur, and Prahaladha Varada Bhajan Mandali, Nanganallur, participated in this celebration. Children clad in auspicious yellow-maroon silk skirts and decked with traditional ornaments, sang together the songs of Haridas. Vel's Campus reverberated with the enchanting verses. Children also performed ‘kolattam.' The programme started with the lighting of the lamp by Anantha Thirthacharya - Special Projects officer, Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams. *** TO TEACH the scientific facts on HIV AIDS among youth NSS Units of Vels University, Pallavaram, organised a one-day workshop in association with International Alliance for the Prevention of AIDS (IAPA) on prevention of AIDS on July 14. Registrar of Vels University P. Govindarajan welcomed the gathering and vice-chancellor S. Ramachandran addressed the students. The session held in a participatory way, which was made interesting and enjoyable to the students. Ten student-volunteers from American universities conducted this seminar under summer volunteer programme. The session was very alive and the students interacted and learned a lot about the viruses. The session also gave knowledge on RNA, DNA. Around five Indian volunteers associated with them to translate the details of the seminar. *** The investiture ceremony, to mark the induction of new student leaders, was held at Violet Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Chitlapakkam on July 7. The school band led the march of the four houses - Eagles, Bulls, Scorpions and Panthers. N.R.D. Premkumar, secretary, N.R.D. group of Institutions, was the chief guest and handed over badges to the school pupil leaders, house captains and class pupil leaders. J. Joshaline Kezia of Class IX spoke on leadership. The newly inducted SPL K. Gowtham addressed the assembly. Principal Lydia Devasagayam welcomed the gathering.