“We are suffering without any fault of ours. Other children will not play with us and the society has deserted us. Now the government too is trying to remove the only shelter in the district. We urge the government to continue the home'', said the children who are suffering from the dreaded disease AIDS. An NGO, Bhavani Community Care Centre, is running a home for HIV positive and AIDS patients at Mungamur village in Bogole mandal in Nellore district, and about 42 persons including 25 children and women are staying in the home. Recently, a team of officials from the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) visited the home and expressed dissatisfaction over the poor maintenance, sanitation and other facilities at the home. The team members stopped financial assistance given to the home. The children and adults at the home observed fast on July 4 and appealed to the government to run the home. “I used to live happily with my father, mother and two sisters. Eight years ago my father died with AIDS in Guntur and we shifted to Sulluripet in Nellore district to my uncle's house. Later, the doctors confirmed that my mother and I too were infected with the disease. My relatives separated my two sisters and admitted my mother and me in the home three years ago. My mother died recently in the home'', recalled an inmate Hafiza tears rolling down her cheeks. “We have relatives and friends, but no one will care for us. Even our family members also abandoned us completely. The society has ostracised us and we are staying far away from the public area. Now the government is trying to drive us away from the home also'', said J. Srujana another inmate. Bhavani Community Care Centre founder director K. Simhadri Rao said the NACO was paying salaries to 11 staff (except the doctor all others are patients), Rs.15,000 per month and Rs.30 per head for maintenance through AP AIDS State Control Society (APSACS). But, salaries were stopped for the past three months and we found it hard to run the home. The home was started in 1997 with ten beds. Several patients from Prakasham, Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa districts were given treatment at the centre. Most pathetic was if the doctors had confirmed that the children were suffering with HIV, the relatives abandon the baby near the home and escape. A few years ago, a baby boy was stuffed in a carton box and abandoned in a train. The officials concerned found the infant at Kavali railway station and on information we brought the infant to home, named him as Chaitanya. He died recently, said Bhavani, an employee in the centre. As per our records, a total of 275 patients including 22 children died in the home in the past 13 years due to AIDS. The home got Rastrapathi Award and several other awards for serving the orphaned kids infected with HIV. We request the NACO and APSACS to run the home, said the director.