The Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics is proposing to set up a third generation Synchrotron, which will be only the fifth such facility in the world, according to institute Director Milan Kumar Sanyal. The Rs.6,000-crore project is expected to be executed over a ten-year period during the 12 {+t} {+h} and 13 {+t} {+h} Five Year Plans. The project proposal and feasibility report will be submitted to Dr. Srikumar Banerjee, Secretary, Central Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), who will forward it to the Ministry, Dr. Sanyal said. Synchrotrons are particle accelerators that produce light beams which are used in basic and applied research in various fields including particle physics, condensed matter, chemistry, nanoscience and medicine. Currently there are four Synchrotrons that use third generation sources in the U.S. (APS), Germany (PETRA III), Japan (SPring-8) and France (ESRF). Over the past two days, Directors of all four institutes were in the city for meetings with the senior officials of SINP and other installations of the Department of Atomic Energy. “We hope that this Synchrotron will be the premier international facility to carry out basic and applied research in material and biological sciences,” Dr. Sanyal said, adding that the international facility will attract the interest of other counties as well. Scientists hope that they will be able to produce beams of very small size (less than 50 nanometres) and high energy at the new facility. Currently, beams of about 100 nanometres are available to researchers, he said. “With beams of that size and energy, we can see the molecular structure of the material being scanned,” he explained. In the Indian context, the facility will be very important for the automobile and pharmaceutical industries, Dr. Sanyal added. Elaborating on the potential of research carried out at such installations, Dr. Gopal K. Shenoy, Senior Scientific Adviser of the Advanced Photon Source (APS) at Argonne in the U.S., said that Kaletra, an antiretroviral drug used to treat HIV patients, was developed at their institute. “The current value of Kaletra is estimated to be $ 2 billion. We have estimated that it would cost the same to built APS today,” Dr. Shenoy said. The project is likely to take off by April 2012, but SINP will be focusing on capacity-building in the meantime. It will require 350 scientists and about 150 acres of land, Dr. Sanyal said. A separate committee has been appointed to look for suitable land for the project and it is not necessary that it will be set up in West Bengal. Currently the only Synchrotron facility in India is the INDUS at the Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced Technology in Indore, which uses a second generation source.