Highways Department’s pavilion at the Tourism and Trade Fair on Island Grounds.   | Photo Credit:  K. Lakshmi and Deepa H. Ramakrishnan CHENNAI: Between mouthfuls of popcorn, visitors to the Tourism and Trade Fair on Island Grounds get to do a lot of things, including exchange soiled currency notes, get samples of bore and well water tested, take printouts of birth and death certificates and even get to know their blood group. Quietly, as they walk from one pavilion to another, they also ingest a lot of information about government schemes. Many visitors to the Reserve Bank of India pavilion were keen on learning about security features of currency notes. As is the case every year, the coin-dispenser machine and demonstration about detection of counterfeit notes turned out to be crowd-pullers. For the first time, the RBI is hosting an exhibition of coins and currency notes along with Madras Coin Society. It features coins from Chera, Chola and Pandya periods, and one-rupee coins of British India period from 1835. Among the currency notes of British India period and Independent India, 10,000-rupee notes issued relatively in bigger size attracted the visitors. More models of Chennai Metrowater projects have been added at the water agency’s display. Some of the interesting models include those of upcoming desalination plant at Minjur, sewage treatment plant depicting generation of electricity from sludge and the one showing means of preventing solid waste from buildings entering manholes. Visitors can also learn about Metrowater’s functions through a presentation. Besides facilities to pay tax and register complaints, the stall also offers to test 21 parameters of water samples at a concessional cost of Rs.60. The results will be sent to residents in 15 days. Similarly, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board display offers testing of water quality at a cost of Rs.50. A similar test at the TWAD board costs Rs.500. Last year, nearly 300 samples were tested. The Chennai Corporation pavilion offers blood grouping and rapid testing for HIV/AIDS. One can also get free printouts of birth and death certificates. The Highways and Minor Ports pavilion is colourful with buses and trucks running on a model bridge. One exhibit shows how pavers and road-rollers are used to lay roads. This is the first time that the Highways Department has set up a pavilion with seven working models, an official says. Inside the pavilion are models of various projects including the clover-leaf-shaped Kathipara grade separator, Pazhaverkadu bridge and Kollidam Bridge.