EXEMPLARY: Sri Lakshmi Self Help Group members serving food to pregnant women in the Primary Health Centre at Narikkalpatti on Tuesday. — PHOTO: G. KARTHIKEYAN.    : Self-help groups that usually engage themselves in traditional income activities like pickle, phenyl and soap powder making have developed themselves remarkably to take up challenging and sustainable business activities, thanks to an effective awareness among rural women and meaningful orientation programmes conducted by the district administration. For the first time, Sri Lakshmi Self-Help Group at Narikkalpatti near here has started offering health tips, especially on consumption of nutritious food to pregnant women visiting the Primary Health Centre at this village for weekly check-up. They prepare nutritious homely food, rich in minerals, vitamins and protein that are needed for a pregnant women at home and serve them lunch in a hygienic way free of cost. They wear white overcoat and cover hands and heads with gloves while serving food. The Department of Health Services foots food production expenses. It offers Rs.25 a meal to the SHG for preparation. The PHC doctor S. Kalaivani said there was no restriction to number of beneficiaries under this scheme funded by National Rural Health Mission. Initially, the SHG starts feeding 40 women on Tuesdays. “We check weight, height, blood pressure, sugar and blood grouping. Besides, scanning and HIV tests will be conducted. It takes at least three hours. Pregnant women, who come from nearby villages have to wait till afternoon to complete the tests. With no eateries, they cannot wait for long time with empty stomach. This facility has eliminated such difficulties. They get nutritious food prepared in a homely way,” she added. SHG president K. Saraswathi said that they have ambitious future plans. They want to supply quality food to all PHCs within this block. Already, she had approached the district administration for establishing a full-fledged canteen inside this PHC. This SHG does not stop with health care activities alone. It has gone one step further and taken education to rural children. They have opened a primary school at Narikkalpatti and appointed teachers with B.Ed degree qualification. Our prime aim is to development it into a high school. Programme Coordinator S. Ramesh said Avinashilingam University professors trained 10 SHG members on nutrition food preparation. MBA Department in two engineering colleges in Dindigul trained them in management and marketing.