S tefania Fernandez comes from that part of the world where beauty queens are waiting in the wings every year to dazzle on the world pedestal — Venezuela. The bright-eyed Miss Universe 2009, who got into the pageant circuit when she was 16, is in India creating awareness on HIV/AIDS and female foeticide. Shepherded by Sanjana Jon, the fashion designer, on a Miss Universe AIDS Awareness Tour to Asia, Stefania has taken this campaign to Delhi, Gurgaon (Haryana) and Bangalore. Sanjana's event management group IG International annually ropes in the reigning Miss Universe for such tours. Beauty queens have weighty responsibilities such as spreading awareness on catastrophic issues, resting on their shoulders. It's only natural then, to know how the year has fared for Stefania. “When I started, I didn't speak any English and Donald Trump (owner of the Miss Universe Organisation) said ‘You must learn English' and so I started classes…then I began to travel the world. But there are so many countries that speak Spanish. I haven't been able to practise my English, and now I know so many cultures and I'm speaking about HIV/AIDS wherever I go,” she rattles off with a thick accent. Miss Venezuela She won her first title of Miss Venezuela at 17. Then one year of “preparation” and she was Miss Universe. What is it about Venezuela that it is able to produce finalists and crown-winners so often? “We don't have a big secret,” she laughs. “It's just that we have a lot of preparation. It's so important, it's so huge…,” and then unable to give me a suitable comparison, she turns to Sanjana Jon for help and the two of them conclude it is as big as making it in to Bollywood. Did Stefania aspire to be Miss Universe all along, right from her school days? “I was tall in school and wanted to contest for Miss Venezuela…but my mum always said ‘Study, study. Finish school.'” Once she finished school, she got on the beauty pageant bandwagon. Venezuela is also legendary for the large number of plastic surgeries its women undergo, I point out. And many beauty queens have been known to go under the knife. Should beauty be judged despite being tampered with? “To those people who have had surgery, I'd say, ‘Ok good.' But it's not only in Venezuela that it's happening. Miss Universe is not about finding one girl who is beautiful; it's about finding one girl with a personality.” There is a contest-winning answer! BHUMIKA K.