Your car - a health hazard!!! Keep it disinfected. Do you love your car? Are you like some of us who consider the car an extension of the family? Do you think that your car is one of your best investments and it does all the functions you expect it to? Little do you realize that your car is multi-functioning as a breeding ground for bacteria and germs as well and might bite into your pocket if you don't pay attention to the issue and might even end up biting into your heart, tracheal tube, oesophagus and stomach walls if you let it. A study conducted by Aston University, UK indicates that a car boot has over 850 counts of bacteria per sq.cm while the dirtiest part of the car is the gear stick with 356 germs per sq. cm. A typical car averages a count of 283 different types of bacteria per sq. cm. Germs associated with food poisoning, skin infections, head ache, running nose and vomiting are found while conducting checks on cars. Swabs and settlement plates reveal samples of bacillus cereus and staphylococcus present in a typical family car, bacteria that cause vomiting and skin conditions like impetigo respectively. Your car might be running perfectly, but these microscopic inhabitants of your car pollute the environment of your car and this in-car air pollution has been listed by the World Health Organization as one of the top ten biggest health hazards in today's world next to AIDS and high blood pressure. According to more than 20 researches done across the world, air pollution in the car is 10 times higher than that in the city environment. In-car air pollution mainly caused by bacteria, virus and the smelly odour caused by them; formaldehyde, benzene, carbon monoxide and ammonia; drinking and smoking in the car and various food smells; mildew in the moist environment sweat, halitosis and cell droppings from the human body and the smell of gasoline and exhaust emission of sulfur dioxide. Headache, fever, acute sore throat, tonsillitis asthma, influenza, dermatitis and other allergic adverse reactions The air conditioner system is a dirty corner spread by bacteria and mildew which will inflect the in-car air by the wind of air conditioner. Darkness, moisture and warmth are the three necessary conditions for mildew to grow. The only way to protect is regular diagnosis and disinfection of the car and its components by professionally trained personnel. Periodic disinfection gives an allergy and germ free ridefrom viral diseases and minimizes the risk of frequent bouts of cold and headache protects you from allergic skin conditions immunizes the vehicle environment from contamination The best such professional service providers have automotive pathological diagnostic equipment which detect pathogens and load of infestation. The disinfection process they follow should be a special protocol adopted and customized for each vehicle based on the diagnosis of the infection load. Specialized equipments and germ suppressants should be used to minimize the risk of residual bacteria. For details call. 9940800300 / 7708450001