IN HER HABITAT Vidyun Singh at India Habitat Centre photos (COVER AND CENTRESPREAD): SHIV KUMAR PUSHPAKAR    I t was in the 1980s that the Indian fashion industry started taking the shape it's revelling in today. The earliest fashion boutiques (Ensemble and Ogaan, for example) were established then. The leading couturiers of today had either just set up their labels or were in the process of doing so (Rohit Bal, Ravi Bajaj, JJ Valaya, etc.). That's also when Vidyun Singh started event management company Media Makers with dear friend Asha Kochhar. One of the most respected fashion choreographers in the country today, Vidyun's journey has been parallel to that of the Indian fashion industry, being there in its nascence and witnessing its journey to the present days of fashion week chaos and coverage. But then, that's not all; Vidyun is also Director - Programmes, Habitat World, the Capital's cultural hub, juggling worlds that occasionally converge, but not necessarily so. We meet her at Habitat World office at India Habitat Centre. “I see my desk has been busy,” she grins at the sight of a crowded tabletop. When one keeps jumping from questions on fashion to Habitat World and back and apologises, she nods a stately nod of understanding. “I was there before all fashion shows, before all fashion weeks,” Vidyun recalls with a tinge of well-founded pride and nostalgia. “All leading designers you see today were students then. We did their graduation shows, their debut shows. The first fashion week was cooked up in our office. It's a completely different world now. Those days were when Rohit Khosla had just come back with ideas. Then, shows used to be theme-oriented; clothes were made for the theme, as opposed to the market.” The first ‘straight' show (the format that is seen on ramps today), expectedly, drew a mixed reaction. “People were like ‘  ',” she recalls. “Now we have fashion weeks multiplying like rabbits.” Time is a factor whose paucity has changed things drastically. With standalone shows few and far between, and fashion weeks encompassing half-a-dozen shows per day with intervals that frequently span less than an hour, change was inevitable. “Time is money now. One misses the days when a show was organised like theatre, putting in lighting, audio-visual, drama….” Here too, things are coming “full circle”. “Drama is coming back internationally. After all, fashion is theatre,” Vidyun says. The role of a choreographer is to find a balance, she feels. “As a choreographer, one's responsibility is not only to encourage you to dream but also to be realistic.” Incidentally, it was an interest in theatre during her college days that proved the catalyst in the jump to fashion choreography. “We were part of Barry's (Barry John's) Theatre Action Group. I used to also do a lot of modelling. So we were like ‘Let's do something different'. Fashion is a kind of theatre, only the actors are changed to models, who, in a way, are also actors,” she recalls. After graduating in Economics from Lady Shri Ram College, Vidyun did her Masters' in International Politics from JNU. “One manages to put whatever one has gathered over the years to some use,” she smiles. Refraining from the beaten I-love-them-all track, she picks out some memorable shows. “The show that we created for Ritu Kumar, ‘Tree of Life', 20 years ago, is in demand even today. Even today, as we are speaking, someone called up to say they wanted to do ‘Tree of Life' in Spain,” she says. There were many firsts — Rohit Bal's first show, at Taj Mansingh, where trees were installed on the sets and dancers and stilt performers brought in, or a JJ Valaya show that was choreographed around a pyramid, with the audience sitting around it. “At Ashish Soni's BMW-sponsored show, the car tore through the backdrop and came on stage. There he was, sitting on the car, with his long hair. A car coming on stage is a common thing now, but no one did it back then,” says Vidyun. “Even now, there is no dearth of ideas. Only, time is the factor.” Not every change has been for the worse. Show music, for one, has become easier. “In the early days we were constantly trying to source new music for our shows. I was editing music on a spool desk! I remember how excited I was editing on a computer the first time.” Media Makers now mostly works with Delhi-based electronic act Jalebee Cartel for its shows. Goof-ups, of course, happen. “During a college show we had built the console deck by piling up benches. Suddenly, in the middle of the show, one of the lower benches collapses and the whole console, with me on top, starts tilting. Miraculously, it stopped midway and the show went on.” A celebrity showstopper played truant once. “In the line-up we had decided to send the showstopper first, followed by the other models. Just when the show was to start I get a call on my headset from backstage that she couldn't be found. I was like ‘How is it possible? She's been here since the past three hours!' So we had to reverse the whole format and send the models in, followed by the showstopper, who finally turned up. She had gone to the restroom!” She adds, “Things go wrong all the time. One has to think on the headset.” Vidyun is also the director of MADI (Making a Difference for India) Design Support, which last year had collaborated with National Geographic on a project on eco fabrics. “We're hoping to be a space that's a catalyst. We're not designing but promoting, propagating and preserving. It's not an ongoing event,” she says. “We want to be able to bring in international design from any space, be the connectors, retain things worth retaining and focus on new emerging areas.” Plans include conducting design workshops every year by bringing in international practitioners and facilitating exchange of ideas here, and a “pet project” on reviving heritage saris. Vidyun's association with Habitat World is nearly 13 years old. “When India Habitat Centre (IHC) started functioning in 1997, our brief was clear. Everyone who saw IHC saw a beautiful building but didn't know what it was. Our one-point agenda was to create a hub. We wanted to draw in a kind of programming that doesn't restrict itself, offer something for every age group — music, films, discussion, dance… People's appetite was growing with their exposure, which till earlier was limited to theatre or films and television. We wanted to bring in the finest that the performing arts had to offer,” Singh says. How did Habitat World survive competition at a time when other cultural venues in the Capital and, specifically, those in the Lodi Garden area, were already well-entrenched? “Our programming was totally different. We were bringing in artists from outside Delhi. We went out and sourced the best. We were celebrating Lori at Habitat. We brought in Manjit Bawa and Madan Gopal Singh. We told Manjit Bawa to think of the traditional recipes he grew up with and teach them to the chefs. Madan Gopal Singh brought in traditional folk music,” she explains. “We were offering things others weren't offering. People thank us for setting up Epicentre in Gurgaon, because there was nothing in that part of town. It's wonderful that there are many institutions (beside Habitat) because there is an audience for everything.”