Memorable: Mayil Vahanan Natarajan (second right), Vice-Chancellor of The Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, Chennai, handing over certificate and medal to J. Subha, gold medallist, at the graduation of Sri Ramakrishna Dental College and Hospital in Coimbatore on Saturday. Managing Trustee of SNR Sons Charitable Trust C. Soundararaj (right) is in the picture. — Photo: M. Periasamy.    Dental awareness has increased among the general public. To keep pace with this, every dental professional should be equipped with the utmost knowledge and skill to deliver the goods in an honest way, Mayil Vahanan Natarajan, Vice-Chancellor, The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai, said here on Saturday. Delivering the graduation day address of Sri Ramakrishna Dental College and Hospital, he said that though dentistry had achieved great strides, the demand and expectations from patients had also increased. “Awareness on and access to various treatment options are easily available to patients. It is common knowledge that oral health not only reflects, but also influences general health,” the Vice-Chancellor said. He further added that oral health could be an indicator of the overall general health. Most of the systemic diseases might initially manifest in the mouth. Gone were the days when tooth extractions were the only treatment extended by dental surgeons. “Research in dentistry has progressed, especially in the field of oral cancer, HIV, nano-dentistry and stem cells. This new knowledge and techniques must be incorporated in the mainstream of dental education and curriculum. There is a demand for qualitative clinical training, effective application and integration of new technologies in the curriculum and also transparent assessment methods,” Dr. Natarajan said. He called for continuous evaluation in technologies and developments in dentistry, as these presented a major challenge to the faculty and students of institutions. However, he acknowledged that at the university level, transformation was happening at all levels, taking into account the futuristic requirements of medical education and research. C. Soundararaj, Managing Trustee of SNR Sons Charitable Trust, and J.M. Jeyaraj, Principal, spoke.