Staff Reporter HYDERABAD: Delay in implementing the much-hyped pension scheme for HIV positives is drawing flak from intended beneficiaries. Patients availing HIV treatment at Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) centres in the Capital are also complaining about inordinate delay and irregularities in issuing ‘Sahara' cards, which makes them eligible to avail benefits like travel concessions and priority in housing schemes. “In 2008, the government announced a pension of Rs. 250 per month. That promise is yet to be implemented. They have not even issued Sahara cards. I am taking ART treatment for HIV since last year,” complained a commercial sex worker (CSW). More such grievances poured in during a community event organised here on Saturday. Nearly 300 CSWs and a few MSMs (men who have sex with men) took part in the event to discuss such issues. Challenges Most of the CSWs maintained that police harassment and lack of health insurance cover for HIV infected are two major challenges faced by them. “In such meetings, we try to promote use of female condoms and precautions to avoid sexually transmitted diseases. Pensions are very important for HIV infected CSWs who are finding it hard to eke out a living,” says Jyothi, president of Mahila Abhivrudhi Sangham (MAS), the NGO which organised the event. Several CSWs, while speaking in the event, also demanded that authorities issue ration cards and include their names in the voters list. “The authorities had promised to provide houses for HIV positive CSWs. When will they fulfil these promises? They are not even issuing us Sahara cards for us to be eligible for such benefits,” several of them complained. The CSWs complained about police harassment to East Zone ACP, Narayana, who was the chief guest. “He asked us to call him directly in case we are harassed again. We are also requesting authorities to issue Sahara cards and provide pensions to our members,” Jyothi demanded. The event was organised by MAS in collaboration with another NGO, Integrated Rural Development Services (IRDS).