I am a Biotech graduate with post graduation in Genetics. I am currently working in a lab on in vitro studies. But I am interested in drug discovery and in vivo studies. I want to enhance my career opportunities. Should I continue with my work to gain experience or take up a new course. What are my chances in software companies? What courses should I take up for such domain-based positions? Stuti In the world of science today, biotechnology and genetics are generating more interest that ever before. Biotechnology with its varied application is throwing up possibilities for human beings to correct their wrongs which have harmed the plant's environment in every possible manner right from pollution to causing cancer. In the field of biology is genetics which is the branch that deals with the study of heredity mainly concerned with genes and DNA that amazes us as to how humans have traits and looks of their parents and ancestors. With new strains of viruses appearing at regular intervals and causing deaths in thousands across the globe it is becoming imperative to tackle these pandemics on a war footing. Cancer, Alzheimer's, diabetes and HIV just to mention a few, still have got no permanent cure. With human genome sequence information available scientist across the globe are going to use it in their research to find cure for some of these diseases. Research opportunities are abound for people in the field of genetics be it in vivo or in vitro studies. In vitro studies are more preferred as the medium is stable and results can be got much quicker. Currently scientists are of the view that in vitro research is vital and highly productive and cost effective. But there are views that the results may give misleading results. Therefore, in vitro studies are usually followed by in vivo studies. Also one must understand that not all in vitro studies are conducted in glass test tubes. Presently many scientific institutions use lab ware made of which is disposable and made from material such as polypropylene which can be sterilised by autoclaving or clear polystyrene instead of glass to ensure sterility and personnel safety from injury from broken glass. Genetic Engineering (GE) is a highly complicated science which involves a wide range of techniques used in changing the DNA code in a living organism. This field to offers scope for scientists to work together in many areas and make significant contribution to bettering life of people. It will be good for you to aspire and work towards earning a Ph.D as India is making rapid strides in both the fields. Major institutions One of the major institutions established recently is the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG) by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science & Technology. It will devote explicitly to capacity building in biomedical genomics. Presently NIBMG offers a Ph.D course. It is being headed by some our most eminent academicians like Partha Pratim Majumder, Ph.D. who was earlier Professor and Head, Human Genetics Unit Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta. In India the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) is the premier agency that sets the tone for research in the field of biotechnology, genetics and molecular biology. You must also get an insight of the various research initiatives and programmes being under taken by institutions like ICAR, ICMR and CSIR. You must also look to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology which offers Ph.D programmes linked to the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi in specialisations such as Biotechnology & Biomedicine , Genetics &Evolution, Cell Biology & Development, Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics, Infectious Diseases, Bioinformatics and Theoretical Biology. T. Muralidharan TMI Network (Queries for this column can be sent to collegian@thehindu.co.in)