Young gun: Manikya Srivatsa of Udhampur (Jammu), the youngest participant at the All India Oriental Conference (AIOC). – Photo: K.V. Poornachandra Kumar    Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeetha, Tirupati, played host to the 45th session of All India Oriental Conference (AIOC) at its sprawling campus here last week. RSVP Chancellor and also the Governor of Assam, Janaki Ballav Patnaik, inaugurated the meet and spoke on the need for the technological universities to compulsorily teach at least the basics of Sanskrit to let posterity stay in touch with their roots. By ignoring Sanskrit, the nation could lose its traditional image soon, he cautioned. Jnanpith awardee and General President of the conference, Dr. Satyavrat Shastri said that Sanskrit not only enriched Indian languages – both Aryan and Dravidian; but also its own self with the coinage of new words, particularly in the modern period. Sanskrit had also absorbed a number of alien words into it, since no spoken language could remain immune to the influence of the languages it comes into contact with, he said, referring to Persian words ‘Bandi', ‘Gruha', ‘Caura' and ‘Pala', Hebrew word ‘Gamal' and the Greek word ‘Hora'. Sanskrit extended its influence across South East Asia, the roots of which were being thoroughly studied by scholars at the Royal Institute of Bangkok, he said. Union Minister of State for Human Resources, D. Purandeswari, Vice-Chancellor Hare Krishna Satapathy and AIOC General Secretary Saroja Bhate were among the speakers. Former Speaker of Legislative Assembly and a senior citizen of Tirupati, Dr. Agarala Eswara Reddi was felicitated . Speakers lauded Dr. Reddi for bringing order in the House, for his role in the development of the temple town and also in furthering the cause of higher education. Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) invites applications from eligible women candidates for admission into various Post-Graduate courses for the academic year 2010-11. The varsity offers PG Diploma in Wildlife Management, a five-year integrated course M.Sc. Biotechnology, a Master's/Bachelor's course in Special Education (hearing impaired) and a P.G. diploma course in Fashion Technology. The varsity also offers M.A. courses in Music (Veena/Vocal), Bharatanatyam and Fine arts (five-year integrated course), besides a PG Diploma course in Family health and HIV/AIDS counselling and a bachelor's course in Library and Information Sciences (B.L.I.Sc). A.D. Rangarajan, in Tirupati