Awareness:Deputy Director, Health Services, N. Ayyanar addressing the media consultation meeting on HIV/AIDS at Dharmapuri Collectorate on Tuesday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter DHARMAPURI: All HIV infected persons are not AIDS patients, hence they should be considered as HIV patients. The appeal was made at the media consultation programme conducted on HIV/AIDS organised by the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) here on Tuesday. Speaking at the programme, Dr. Jegannathan, Joint Director, Health Services said the prevention, care and support services in the district for the HIV/AIDS affected persons would be scaled up soon. Clinics for the sexually transmitted diseases (STD) would be established at Pappireddipatti and Periyamapatti Public Health Centres. According to Sentinel Surveillance Survey, the National Family Health Survey and Integrated Behavioural Biological Assessment, the prevalence of HIV in the State has reduced to 0.25 per cent in 2007 from 1.13 per cent in 2001. It is because of the sustained efforts by the authorities and NGOs to prevent HIV infection, Dr. Jegannathan added. Dr. N. Ayyanar, Deputy Director, Health Services said as many as 34,561 pregnant women had undergone HIV test, of which 71 were identified as positive. They were referred to the Anti Retroviral Therapy(ART) Centre at the Government Medical College Hospital during the last year. As many as 56,771 people were tested for HIV at the 17 ICDC centres across the district during 2009. Due to various awareness programmes conducted by the Tamil Nadu Aids Control Society in association with the National Aids Control Organisation, large number of people are voluntarily coming up for the HIV test in these centres. With view to prevent the HIV transmission from parent to child, the Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission (PPTCT) programmes was put in place in all the PHCs. As on March 2010, as many as 1,205 people were found living with HIV and they were provided ART treatment, to expand their life span through the Government Hospital in the district. The stigma attached to the disease and the consequent isolation was a major source of concern, he added. He also said that 29 cases were registered by the free Legal Aid Centre at the ART centre dealing with economic problem, dowry problem and it also includes two cases under the Protection of Civil Rights Act. Dr. Vidya, District Programme Manager, District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU), M. Raja Mahendran, President, Dharmapuri District HIV Positive Welfare Society, C. Sudalaimuthu, District Manager, Red Ribbon Club, S.R. Shobhana from Sneha Sadan spoke.