Just a cool dude?: John Abraham gives it his best shot, but it is not enough.    After delivering a couple of duds, Nagesh Kukunoor returns to familiar turf with a film that promises hope and sunshine in shadows. However, it fails to deliver the goods. One of the first directors of this generation who took off the “filmy” label from our cinema with commercial success, Nagesh is adept at creating heart-warming characters. Here, Anaitha Nair plays one such character. Anaitha showed a spark in   but here as the terminally ill cancer patient, she has got the opportunity to blossom and her effortless performance will leave you spellbound. But she is the only bright spot in a film that goes all out to manipulate your tear ducts with a subject that has been tried many times before. John Abraham plays Rahul, a compulsive gambler, who gets a shock when he discovers that he is suffering from lung cancer and has only three months to live. His live-in girlfriend, Nafisa, offers to stand by him, but overrun by self-pity, Rahul leaves for a hospice, leaving behind a substantial portion of his earnings for Nafisa. The rest of the film unfolds at the picturesque hospice by the sea, where the cocky Rahul learns life lessons and the good old dogma of living in the moment as he comes across patients from all age groups staring at death. Intuitively shot, the problem is that spontaneity is missing in the script. Instead of engaging us with a story, Nagesh has invested in moments and after a point as these moments become rehearsed, you understand the trick — the idea of manipulating the audience to reach out for the handkerchief. He succeeds a few times, particularly in the scenes between John and the politically incorrect Anaitha are a treat to watch but as a whole we realise this is not the amorphous Nagesh at play. Such films have a talkative kid who knows it all. Govinda (Ashwin Chitale) has a ring of the supernatural but it is a trick that is past its expiry date, so is organising the family reunion for an old man deserted by his folks. Farida Jalal, as an AIDS patient facing untouchability seems to have jumped straight from the soppy scenes of Karan Johar's world and the smart idea of bringing the Indiana Jones angle gets tediously long. John gives it his best shot, but it is not enough. As for the much talked about “transformation”, he remains a cool dude for a major portion of the film. The good news is Nagesh is back on track, but the sad part is he has yet to find the uplifting ways that defined him. A.K.