More than 2.5 lakh of the 27.50 lakh people living with HIV in India are from Karnataka, Kodagu District AIDS Control Officer attached to the District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU), K.G. Siddaiah, said here on Monday. He told presspersons here that 1.5 lakh people in the State were undergoing anti-retroviral therapy (ART). He was briefing the media with regard to the World AIDS Day scheduled to be organised here on December 1. In Karnataka, prevalence of HIV among men was 0.36 per cent while it was 0.22 per cent among women. Similarly, in urban centres, prevalence among men was 0.35 per cent while it was 0.25 per cent among women. Dr. Siddaiah said Kodagu district stood last in the State in terms of the number of people with HIV. As many as 36,812 persons were counselled at the Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) and tested between the year 2002 and 2010 till October. As many as 1,397 persons were found to have been infected with HIV. As many as 39,570 pregnant women were tested and 152 were found HIV positive. All infected persons in both categories were in the age group of 15 to 50, he said. And, close to 50 deaths had occurred in Kodagu since the ART centre started at the District Hospital here in June 2009, Sunita Muthanna, a supervisor attached to the DAPCU said. Among the pregnant women who tested positive, 92 were delivered of babies between 2003 and October 2010. Mothers were administered with Nevropine, a medication to prevent spread of the virus from mother to child. Whether the child had escaped HIV would be determined only after 18 months, Dr. Siddaiah said. As many as 11 ICTCs functioned in Kodagu district and six primary health centres had testing facilities for HIV. Besides, one mobile testing unit functioned in association with a non-governmental organisation. Dr. Siddaiah said that at the ART centre here, 451 persons had registered themselves and 242 among them availed themselves of the benefits of free treatment. Bhaskar, a representative of ASHODYA, an NGO working closely with the DAPCU, said 622 female sex workers and 85 male sex workers had registered with the organisation. They were treated for sexually transmitted diseases and had been asked to dissuade from business. Condoms were being distributed among them. Ashok of the Sarvodya Positive Network, another NGO, was present. World AIDS Day would be observed on Wednesday, Dr. Siddaiah said. A jatha would start from the Saraswati D.Ed College here to the Cauvery Kalakshetra and a formal function would be organised at 11 a.m. Manu Muthappa, president of the Kodagu Zilla Panchayat Standing Committee on Health and Education, would inaugurate the jatha. Kodagu District and Sessions Judge Ashok G. Nijagannavar would be the guest.