As many as 3,962 government and aided schools in the State have been found uneconomic in a survey conducted by the Directorate of Public Instruction for 2009-10. This is 301 more than the 2008-09 figure of 3,661. The 2009-10 list comprises 1,974 government schools and 1,988 aided schools. More than 2.6 lakh students study in these schools, which have 20,217 teaching staff and 2,793 non-teaching staff. Kannur district has the largest number of 605 uneconomic schools. Under the Kerala Education Rules, a lower or upper primary or high school in which the strength per standard or batch is below 25 is called an uneconomic school. The increase in number of uneconomic schools will have serious repercussions for the public education system at large and the number of teaching posts, which have been affected by a steady decline in student strength in government schools over the years. The one-day verification held in schools earlier this year revealed a drop of 2.5 lakh students in these schools. Official figures put the reduction in number of posts of teacher at nearly 3,000 this year. Nearly 1,000 unprotected teachers of aided schools have been estimated to have lost their jobs because of the drop in the student strength and division fall. “Teachers of uneconomic government schools will not lose their jobs. However, teachers of aided schools may lose their jobs if they do not fall in the protected teachers' category. It becomes the responsibility of the local bodies, the local community and also people working in the education sphere at large to bring such schools back on track,” A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish Director of Public Instruction, said. Mr. Hanish, however, said that none of the uneconomic schools would be closed because of a government policy. Nearly 2,500 of them had been showing signs of resurgence when compared with their student strength last year. “According to the reports submitted by the AEOs [assistant education officers] and the DEOs [district education officers], nearly 2,500 schools are going towards the threshold level of 100 students. These resurgent schools can come up with better intervention. However, there can be division fall and reduction of posts,” he said. He said the reduction of the teacher-student ratio from 1:40 to 1:30, as recommended in the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, will help in reducing the cut in number of posts. M. Shajarkhan, president of the All India Democratic Students' Organisation (AIDSO) State unit, alleged that the current reforms in the curriculum and the trivialisation of the examination system could be the main reasons for the sharp drop in student strength in government schools.