The main function organised to mark Library Day this year was inaugurated by Governor H.R. Bhardwaj and drew the usual quota of media attention. But another event organised the same day to honour librarians who had served long years as guardians of books failed to draw even a single chief guest listed in the invitation! The programme at Hampi Nagar in Vijayanagar area was to be inaugurated by Minister for Adult Education and Libraries Shivanagouda Naik and presided over by Vijayanagar MLA M. Krishnappa. The guest list included Transport Minister R. Ashok and Member of Parliament Ananth Kumar, besides Bangalore University Vice-Chancellor N. Prabhu Dev. Not a single of these VIPs turned up for the programme. As a result, a librarian from Kolkata, who had come to receive the award, ended up inaugurating the event himself. Retired and incumbent officials of the department had to do all other formalities — from delivering key-note address to playing the role of chief guest. Journalists usually keep a safe distance from protests only if there's danger of real violence. However, the one where the Pattandur Agrahara residents poured sewage on themselves sent them scattering even though not even a harsh word was uttered. While the press exercised its free will, not so the hapless police personnel, some of whose uniforms were splashed with the malodorous mess. Even DCP Central Region Ramesh seen trying to dodge the smelly spray. The matter did not end there, for the police had to escort the protestors to the Bal Bhavan where they cleaned themselves and changed. Reporters covering the recent visit of Rahul Gandhi at National College, Basavanagudi, turned snoopers what with the tight security cover thrown around the young Congress leader that kept them at bay. Journalists, who were barred from entering the auditorium where Mr. Gandhi was interacting with the students, were hard-pressed over how to report the event. A few even stuck their stuck their ears to the door and scribbled down whatever was audible. They heaved a sigh of relief when they were finally allowed entry into the auditorium. But alas! moments later they were herded out as unexpectedly. And it was back to square one, ears pressed against the door and face crinkled in concentration. BAGESHREE S., M.T. SHIVAKUMAR, SHARATH S. SRIVATSA