Reaching out: Participants in the programme sing on stage.    An awareness programme on Tuberculosis was conducted by Banumathy Subramanian, council member for women's health – Lioness Council 324 - A.5 jointly with the Directorate of Medical Services, Government of Tamil Nadu, at the Mangayarkarasi Magalir Mandram, Sastri Nagar, Adyar, recently. In her welcome address, Mrs. Banumathy said that TB, which is widely prevalent among the masses, is not being given as much importance as cancer, swine flu or HIV/AIDS even though the mortality rate is no less than the other diseases. She pointed out that the success and fruitfulness of conducting such programmes lay in sharing the emotions and feelings of the affected and creating a confidence in them that there were people to extend a helping hand to them in their hour of crisis. Jagadesh Chandar, D/C Lioness, in his introductory speech, stressed the need for conducting such awareness programmes by voluntary organisations. Additional Director of Medical Services, Dr. Udayashankar, praised the Lioness Club for having come forward to conduct a programme on TB with the participation of government services for the first time. Though the government was doing its role to control the disease, such awareness programmes by voluntary organisations would give a great fillip in spreading the message more effectively, he said adding that other organisations should take a cue from the Lioness Club and do more such programmes in the interest of the public. Dr. Daruni Latha, District TB Planning Officer, outlined the causes for the disease such as malnutrition, pollution etc and said that with early detection, one can completely get rid of TB by taking the necessary pills for six months. She said that by curing a person of the disease, not only do we give relief to him but also prevent the spread of TB to other persons. M. Shanmugasundaram, District Publicity Officer, recalled that in the earlier days, due to non-availability of effective medicines many people succumbed to the disease. With advancement in science and availability of medicines free of cost, TB, the silent killer, can be brought under control. Members of REACH (Resource Group for Education and Advisory of Community Health) enacted a skit on TB. A “Villupattu” provided thought-provoking entertainment for the audience. Chitra from REACH said that by adopting “DOT” strategy, better results were achieved in convincing the patient to complete the full course of treatment with uninterrupted supply of drugs. Zakira Mohideen, president of Mangairkarasi Magalir Mandram, thanked the audience and others for making the event a grand success.