National Service Scheme volunteers of Government Higher Secondary School, Kuruvikulam, undertook a bicycle rally on World AIDS Day to create awareness of AIDS among the public. The rally was flagged off by Subbulakshmi, Headmistress. NSS volunteers, led by Subbaraju, Programme Officer, carried placards and distributed pamphlets to residents along the rally route, from Kuruvikulam to Kazugumalai. The Kidscare Playskool, Palayamkottai, celebrated Query Day in which various competitions were held for the tiny tots. Prizes were distributed by Daisy, who also delivered a talk for parents on dental care of children. An eye camp was organised at Sri Jayendra Saraswathi Swamigal Golden Jubilee Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Sankarnagar, recently by Aravind Trust Lavelle Paediatric Eye Project. The camp was headed by Dr. Arijith Mithra of Aravind Eye Hospital, Tirunelveli and was assisted by his six co-staff. Arumugam of Aravind Eye Hospital was the coordinator. Apart from a free eye check-up, Rs. 400-worth spectacles were provided to the students at a subsidised rate of Rs. 50 a piece. The camp was initiated and supported by the volunteers and members of the Interact Club of the school. Interschool quiz competition for schools from Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, and Kanyakumari districts, was organised by Pushpalata Matriculation Higher Secondary School recently. Pushpalata Poornan, Correspondent of the school, welcomed and felicitated the guests. Mr. Mahesh, Partner, Pothys Textiles, distributed the prizes. Mariappan, Inspector of Matriculation Schools, was present. More than 70 teams from various schools competed in the written preliminary round and 12 teams advanced to the semi finals. Two semi-finals were conducted and six teams clashed out in the finals. Manova Raja, Chief Executive Officer, Fragrhen Quiz Academy, conducted the finals. Sree Jeyandra Saraswati Swamigal Golden Jubilee Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Sankar Nagar, emerged champions. The winners were awarded individual trophies, gift hampers and book vouchers. Contributed by P. Sudhakar in Tirunelveli