Lucid Recess is a music band from the land of green pastures and blue rivers — Guwahati. The band members are Amitabh Barooa (vocals and bass), Siddharth Barooa (guitars and backing vocals) and Partha Boro (drums and percussion). The recently launched ‘Engraved Invitation' is the band's second album. We had never played in a band before, but we always wanted to form a band. So to participate in the Assam Engineering College Rock Competition, we formed Lucid Recess, in April 2004. We played 3 shows that year and then were inactive for more than 3 years. It was only after we released our extended play (EP) ‘ Carved',in 2007; that we started to take the band seriously. We have been influenced by a lot of bands and genres of music over the years. Now we listen to almost everything that sounds good to us and try to bring in as many different ideas as we can .We get inspired very easily and by a lot of things. In our EP, the songs were more about social issues like AIDS , global warming terrorism etc. But our new album is more about life in general and what we go through. We choose the name ‘Engraved Invitation', symbolically for the people who already know about us and about our music. Through this name we request all those who haven't heard us to listen to our songs. This time, we had put a lot of effort in getting a good production, compared to our EP and we are happy about it.  This could be because the people here have always treated music as a part of their life and are passionate about it. Kids are usually exposed to rock music from a very early age by either their parents or elders in the family, who would have listened to the legendary musicians while they were growing up. The scene here has really changed a lot in the last couple of years. Earlier most of the bands played classic rock songs, now you can see that almost all the bands have started writing and playing their own songs. You can see different bands playing various genres here,right from the garage rock to alternative, from hard rock to extreme metal. We guess one of the reasons could be because the musicians and bands here spend more time practising and perfecting their craft rather than trying to promote their music and to reach out to more people. A few bands from northeast like Soulmate and Boomerang, are doing extremely well outside our region also. Promoting and getting decent quality demos have now become an integral part of a band being recognised outside the region. Yes, we do like a lot of Indian bands. We love Zero, Scribe, Bhayanak Maut, Indigo Children, Them Clones, Boomerang and a few more bands. Recently our Indian band Demonic Resurrection has proved it by winning the Metal Hammer Golden Gods Award. It is amazing that the focus is on originality. Indian bands are finally being recognised internationally and are getting chances to play in shows abroad. This is a big step forward.It's an inspiration for the young musicians in our country . We are planning a few things right now which will be announced soon. We will also release our first Assamese song very soon. It will be up for free download.. We have worked very hard on this album and are really happy that people are appreciating our effort. Visit us at www.lucidrecess.com and also join us in www.facebook.com/lucidrecessfor news and updates. And don't forget to buy our new album available at request on the Facebook page!