STEPS TO FITNESS Women learning Bharatanatyam at Gandhi Nagar, Adyar PHOTO: R. SHIVAJI RAO    J iffy Joem is married with two children but she rarely misses out on her hour-long exercise regimen at the Bharatha Choodamani Academy of Bharatanatyam. In the mornings, the custom-made studio, complete with red-oxide floor and sound system, at Adyar Lakshman's home turns into a laid-back continuous course where women learn Bharatanatyam as a means of keeping fit. The dance guru, who takes these classes along with daughter Induvadana and daughter-in-law Deepa Babaprasad, says it's the best form of exercise. “There are only three reasons to take up Bharatanatyam; for passion, for love of the art and for fitness. Not many women know of this course. After marriage, they usually join gyms or take up other forms of physical exercise. But if they learn this art, it's not just to keep fit but also to learn something new,” he says. The course is not a professional one but offers training over a period of time. Madhavi Manohar, who joined two months ago, explains how it changed her life. “I had many health issues before I joined these classes. My heels were always swollen and I had some hormonal conditions too. Within a month of enrolling, my problems have almost disappeared,” she smiles. Induvadana says Bharatanatyam has other health benefits too. “My sister-in-law and I are professional dancers. We are married and have children but have continued to dance. Usually, women who have borne children hesitate to join dance classes but I want to break that taboo. This art has so many health benefits. It not only keeps you flexible and refreshed, but prevents blood pressure and diabetes too. I had gestational diabetes and was instructed to continue dancing to avoid becoming a diabetic later in life,” she explains. Mona Pathak came here from Gujarat post-marriage and has been learning Bharatanatyam for three years. “It's an uplifting experience. And I have a supportive husband and family who encourage me to pursue it,” she says. “After women get married they are unsure whether they can begin to learn an art. The students we have here have no prior experience but are capable of giving a full-fledged performance now. Usually, when students join they first ask when they will be able to perform. But in this course, the focus is more on the classes and our students are quite happy with what they're doing. I think this is very important for them.” “This is like a hobby,” says Lakshman, adding, “There is no end for any kind of art. It can continue for as long as you wish.” ANUSHA PARTHASARATHY