Accolade: One of the students receiving the certificate from Director S.P. Muthuraman    Sri Sai Sampathi, an NGO, has tied up with CSC Computer Centre, Vadapalani, to provide free computer education to Plus Two toppers of General Cariappa Higher Secondary School, Saligramam. The NGO, which aids the education of poor students in Kaveri High School and General Cariappa Higher Secondary School, launched the programme to mark its first anniversary on July 7. Nine students, six of whom are State rank holders, are enrolled for the course. The duration and syllabus will be decided according to prior computer knowledge of the students, said Sunanda Sampath Kumar, Director, Sri Sai Sampathi. The organisation also presented silver pens to toppers of Class X. Director S.P. Muthuraman, chief guest, gave away the prizes and certificates. He congratulated the students and advised them to utilise the opportunity. He added that the students should work hard to come up in life. Sri Sai Sampathi has been sponsoring evening snacks and tiffin for more than 500 students of the above mentioned schools. The aim was to help students stay back at the school to continue their studies, said Sunanda Sampath Kumar. Incidentally, General Cariappa School produced six State ranks this year. The organisation provided evening food from October to February with donations from various people, said Ms. Sunanda. The organisation also conducts motivational workshop for the students and gives stationery items. Talking of other activities of the organisation, Ms. Sunanda said that it conducts AIDS awareness programmes and free cataract surgeries regularly at Meenambalpuram, a slum near Mylapore. It has been engaging the residents of the slum in making jute bags and covers, thus giving them an additional income. Sri Sai Sampathi along with Vithagan Trust will conduct a blood donation and general health camp on July 25 at Sudarma Kalyana Mandapam, Saligramam between 9.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. Sri Sai Sampathi is at 71-B, Indira Gandhi Street, Kaveri Rangan Nagar, Saligramam. For details, contact 98410 53025. R. Keerthana