Sujatha Natarajan: Working for the women's cause. Photo: K.V. Srinivasan    India is the second most populated country in the world. To check out the raising growth, a national Family Planning programme was formulated by the Indian Government in 1950s. Today, the FPAI is a 60-year-old organisation with 40 branches all over India and it is also affiliated to International Planned Parenthood Federation (with members from 150 countries). It has evolved a framework for achieving population stabilisation and promoting reproductive health. There are many volunteers who have taken it up as a cause. One such volunteer, 45-year old Sujatha, is the youngest and the first All-India president of FPAI from Tamil Nadu. She comes from the rural background of Nagapattinam district. She has done her post graduation in public administration. To understand the lifestyle of women at the grass roots level and the challenges faced by them in their daily lives, she chose to work for them soon after completing her education. She realised that women were under constant pressure to balance social, economic and reproductive roles. The biggest hurdle was that they did not have access to tools to plan the size of their family. According to her, in spite of professional, medical and other services available, there is a rising need for volunteers, (cutting across all sections of the society) to help women in particular and people in general, to make a difference in their sexual and reproductive life. In this context she joined the FPAI in 1997 and has been with them ever since. She says: “The biggest problem in our country is that more people are having children. It is essential that this population should space out their children.” According to her, this alone will help to stabilise the population. Otherwise, India will continue to add one Australia (18 million births) every year. How does she plan to help the country? Hailing from Tamil Nadu has given her an advantage as the State has been recognised as a pioneer in the field of reproductive health and family welfare. According to her, the Dravidian movement gave a special impetus to women empowerment, which is a key to family welfare. Also the Self Help Group movement has mobilised and empowered women to be good decision makers. FPAI in Tamil Nadu has taken advantage of all these and provided very high quality care and services through its clinics in Madurai, Nilgiris, Dindigul and Chennai. Their clinics offer a wide range of reproductive choices and related care. The clinics have state-of-the-art operation theatres, its doctors provide a range of contraceptive choices and advice, there are counselling services for youth, awareness programmes for transgenders, testing and care for HIV. In all its outreach programmes, FPAI has partnered with women's groups to allow access to its services. Sujatha feels that the successful experience of TN needs to be taken to the North and North eastern States, where still most of the indicators – infant mortality rate, maternal mortality rate, institutional deliveries, unsafe abortions and couple protection – need to be addressed on a war footing. “Family planning is still not effective in the other States due to lack of synergy between the civil society groups, political will and the target clientele,” she says. Sujatha's visit to Iran, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal and Cambodia has given her an insight into their sexual and reproductive health programmes. She says, “In all these areas, it is heartening to see the influence the FPAs are able to exert on the Government and how they mobilise the people to work for the reproductive rights.” As a president of FPAI, she wants its services to be accessible in every corner of the country. So as a first step, FPAI is in the process of educating the youth and local groups on reproductive health issues. If this movement helps to create an awareness even among a few, it will eventually help community-based service delivery points to provide first aid to clients at their doorstep before they access institutional services. Sujatha is also a corporate social responsibility consultant with manpower services India. She is a trustee of Catalyst Trust. She was given the best citizen award by the media guild. LALITHASAI