Following the shortage of rapid HIV testing kits, the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) has asked all the State AIDS Control Societies to use the available kits judiciously. The organisation has asked the project directors of the societies to even curtail testing of “pre-operative cases” as the available stocks will last only till September. Pre-operative cases are those who are about to be operated on for a variety of reasons.  had on July 24 reported that testing had come to a halt in almost all government-run Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTC) in Karnataka owing to unavailability of testing kits. The State requires nearly 4,000 kits a month to run its 565 testing centres. Subsequently, Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS) officials said they had procured some kits and more would arrive soon. In a letter dashed off to the project directors last week, NACO's National Programme Officer (ICTC) Suresh K. Mohammed has asked them to “curtail testing of pre-operative cases, spouses of HIV negative pregnant women and other general public unless there is a clear history of risk taking behaviour.” Until now all those who visited the ICTC were routinely tested for HIV. The letter states that NACO was trying its best to supply the kits to all societies based on the consumption. “However, due to the ever increasing demand as well as expansion of counselling and testing services to 24X7, we are unable to match supplies to the demand,” the letter states. The letter says that target population like high-risk groups, TB patients, STI patients, pregnant women and clients of high-risk groups should be tested on priority. Supplies are expected to start by November, according to the letter. HIV/AIDS activists said doctors, nurses and paramedical staff would be at a grave risk if pre-operative cases are not tested. “How can they curtail testing of pre-operative cases? Keeping up the morale of doctors and nurses is very important in reducing the stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV,” an activist said. The shortage of kits is a big setback to the whole HIV prevention programme, he said. KSAPS Project Director R.R. Jannu said NACO's direction did not mean that all pre-operative cases would not be tested. “It is just to ensure that the available kits are used judiciously,” he said.