L.R. Joshi (middle) Group Executive, Field Ministry Operations, World Vision India, releasing a book. Gopal David Raj, (right), Transformational Development Director, receiving it at Kamudhi in Ramanatlhapuram district on Friday. Photo: L. Balachandar   | Photo Credit:  World Vision India through its area development programme at Mudukulathur has assisted self-help groups to tap bank resources to the tune of Rs.7.13 crore during the last five years alone, according to L.R. Joshi, Group Executive, Field Ministry Operations, World Vision India. Presiding over a thanksgiving ceremony, organised by the various beneficiaries of area development programme implemented by World Vision during the last 15 years, at Kamudhi on Friday, he said it worked with poor, underprivileged and needy communities in the 105 hamlets of Mudukulathur, Kadaladi, Kamudhi in Ramanathapuram district and Narikudi block in Virudhunagar district for their socio-economic transformation. A number of initiatives, including micro-enterprise skills for women, information and communication centres, electricity facilities for 837 house holds, shelter for 997 poorest families, formation of 332 SHGs, economic development assistances to 1964 poorest of poor families and livelihood programmes had made significant contribution to the overall development of beneficiaries. Mr. Joshi said 1,048 persons had been directly benefited under its health project. It organised several programmes for creating an awareness of female infanticide, dowry system, child raising and HIV/AIDS. He added that the targeted areas of the programme were deprived of enough water resources. In order to tide over the crisis, nine new water ponds were constructed, 29 ponds deepened and 23 water ponds fenced in different areas. Similarly, eight infiltrations were constructed and two drinking water schemes started for minimising the turbidity and sedimentation in water. Mr. Joshi said thanks to the concerted efforts of staff members of the programme, illicit brewing, which was a flourishing business in many villages, particularly M. Karisalkulam, till a few years ago, had been totally stopped. The social transformation had become a reality in several villages. Gopal David Raj, Transformational Development Director, said that it had supported 3,441 boys and girls, including 1700 sponsored children, to pursue education. G. Jesuharan Thangaraj, Programme Manager, said though the 15-year programme had come to an end, it would be directly monitored by a staff of World Vision for a year. A number of volunteers had been identified for the continuous success of the initiatives, including Janasakthi Women Federation.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 12:48:18 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/ldquoWorld-Vision-India-has-helped-SHGsrdquo/article15973582.ece   © The Hindu 