The Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) is set to launch a state-of-the-art mobile unit to collect blood from donors across the State. Named Blood Mobile, the sleek air-conditioned bus will be deployed at various locations for on-site blood collection. The low-floor vehicle, which reached the city on Tuesday, is expected to be a valuable tool in the drive to promote voluntary blood donation in Kerala. The bus, supplied by the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), cost over Rs.1 crore. The bus is equipped with four couches for blood collection and four refrigerators to store the donated blood. It has a modern blood-testing unit, a refreshment corner, LCD display units, washrooms, a chemical toilet and facilities for a doctor, lab technicians and other staff. K. Shailaja, Project Director, KSACS, said discussions were on to finalise the modalities of operating the unit. She said the hospital seeking the services of the bus might have to make arrangements for blood collection. The finer details, such as appointment of bus crew, payment of salary and maintenance of the vehicle, would have to be worked out. “The mobile unit will be part of the blood safety programme of the KSACS,” she said. Four donors can donate blood simultaneously inside the bus. After donation, they will move to the refreshment section before leaving the vehicle. The Blood Mobile can collect 300 bags of blood a day and transport it to a blood bank retaining the cold chain. It obviates the need to identify a building and make arrangements while organising a blood donation camp in remote areas. The Blood Mobile project was launched by NACO to address the shortage of safe blood in the country. It is estimated that India faces a shortage of 2 million units of blood a year. Half a litre of donated blood can help save three lives. The main source of blood collection in the State is the blood received through exchange in the hospital. This is not considered a healthy practice and there is a high risk of transmitting various diseases. Hence, there has been a constant attempt to promote voluntary blood donation. The World Health Organisation (WHO) mandates that access to safe blood should ideally be a universal right. According to WHO figures, more than 80 million units of blood is donated every year. Blood donation is relatively less in developing countries, which host nearly 82 per cent of the global population.