NOT RESTING ON HIS LAURELS Sharath Kamal PHOTO: S. THANTHONI    T ucked away in a remote corner of Patiala is the imposing National Institute of Sports (NIS), where the Indian table tennis teams (men and women) have been practising for the last couple of weeks for the forthcoming Commonwealth Games. Fresh from his victory in the U.S. Open and the Egypt Open, India's top paddler Sharath Kamal says it helps to play in such places as “you have no distractions and can focus on the game”. Sharath feels that interacting with the foreign coach Massimo Constantini at the camp has benefited him immensely. “He's really good. Watching my game, Constantini can understand the way I think — how I play and what goes on in my mind. Moreover, players raise the bar for themselves at the camp when they play against me. It lifts their spirit,” he says. Sharath is in the best phase of his career. The twin victories will, in all probability, propel the National champion to the top 50 in the world rankings, which will be announced in August. “There's a chance that I could be ranked either 38th or 39th. To be realistic, I think I should be ranked 45th,” says Sharath, currently ranked 76. Sharath wasn't smiling like this a couple of months ago. After reaching a career-best ranking of 55 in March, this year, his ranking dropped; so did his confidence and self-belief. As early as June this year, Sharath was ranked 91, a low he hadn't touched in the last three years. “It was frustrating,” he reveals. “During and after the World Championships in Moscow, my confidence was very low. I used to shout at myself during matches. My on-court behaviour was not up to the standards I've set for myself. That was when the Indian Open came.” Prior to the Indian Open, there was a one-week camp in New Delhi, and Sharath asked coach Bhawani Mukherjee for a multi-ball session. “That's where I started finding my rhythm. After playing with Amalraj during one of those practice sessions, I felt good. But, mentally I was still not sure of my game.” Sharath gave a good account of himself with a semifinal appearance, beating some better-known players, and his subsequent back-to-back victories in the U.S. and Egypt Open did his game a world of good. “I have become more mature. My game has more clarity. I've grown calmer and don't fret too much,” he says. The Commonwealth Games, says Sharath, will be a huge test for him. At the same time, he believes he's up to the challenge. “Players such as Singapore's Gao Ning, Yang Zi, England's Paul Drinkhall and Segun Toriola of Nigeria will be the real threats. There is no reason to panic, however. I am confident of defending my singles title,” he says. Sharath knows that rankings are temporary as a single defeat to a lower-ranked paddler would pull him down. In an effort to shore up his game, he has signed a 10-month contract with the German club, Grafelfing, based in Munich, which he feels is one of the best leagues in the world. “After the Chinese league, I rank this as the top league.” At his age and level, Sharath says it's the quality rather than the number of tournaments that will hold the key. “I have passed the age where more practice will help. I have to look for quality,” he says. Sharath has set his own goals and has gone about achieving them quietly. He's not resting on his laurels, though. “I think there is a lot more to accomplish. I have more tasks to complete.” The Indian Oil Corporation employee will do well to realise that limitations exist only in his mind. K. KEERTHIVASAN