Staff Reporter TIRUPATI: The Red Ribbon Express did the talking in disseminating the message on prevention of AIDS and de-stigmatisation of the HIV-positive persons. Exhibits The train is stationed at Chittoor Railway Station for the last two days to let the residents of the 100 villages around Chittoor town have a glance at the thought-provoking exhibits and gain knowledge on the dreaded disease and its social repercussions. The train arrived at Chittoor on Monday and was on the platform on Tuesday too. Of the eight bogies in the train, the first one focused on the theme of bio-diversity and health protection. With a touch-screen and three-dimensional models, the interactive mode provided an opportunity to the visitors to get the information they needed with a ‘feather touch'. The second bogie dwelt on spread of AIDS and protection measures. The third bogie was the most important in a way that it explained the social angle - by highlighting the need for the media, police, parents, students and the intellectual community to join hands in spreading awareness. The fourth one spoke on the National Rural Health Mission, the state's commitment for the welfare of girl children, nutrition and marriageable age etc. Without any partition, the fifth compartment is meant to be an auditorium to conduct small scale meetings, while the sixth one focused on Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs). The other two are meant for the stay of volunteers and official purposes. Students from various schools and colleges turned up at the platform to watch the exhibits. In a major step towards letting the message percolate down to the rural masses, the district machinery arranged transportation of villagers in RTC buses to the station. ‘Kala Jathas' Cultural troupes and ‘Kala Jathas' were sent to the villages skirting Chittoor town to spread the word, Collector V. Seshadri said. The Express was formally declared open on Monday by Minister for Environment and Forests P. Ramachandra Reddy, while Member of Parliament N.Sivaprasad gave a call to ‘break the silence'.