For good health: Dhanabakkiyam, Principal, Government Arts College for Women flagging off the AIDS awareness van on the college premises in Krishnagiri on Thursday. - Photo: Special Arrangement    As part of the State-level Youth Carnival ‘Ilavattam' to be celebrated during the second week of August in Chennai, a week-long cultural rally to create AIDS awareness among the youth was flagged off in Krishnagiri on Thursday. Vans, along with the cultural troupes will cover all ten panchayat unions for a week and conduct cultural programmes that will create awareness on HIV/AIDS. Five campaign vans were flagged off at the campus of the Government College for Women in Krishnagiri. Besides this, district-level sports competitions for college and school students would also be held at the District Sports Stadium in Krishnagiri from July 27 to 29 and for government employees on July 30. Winning candidates in the sports and cultural competitions would be sent to the State-level competitions at Chennai. The Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) is organizing the youth carnival with the objective of bringing the message of HIV/AIDS prevention to young people. Such participants are primarily from universities and colleges all over the State and rural youth, including school drop outs. The rally was flagged off by Dhanabakkiyam, Principal, Government Arts College for Women and Dr. Nirmalsan, Deputy Director, Health Services (in charge) at the Government College for Women at Krishnagiri. Dr. Kavin, District Project Officer, TANSACS; Theerthos, District Sports Officer, professors and members of NGOs participated. As part of the Youth Carnival, week-long sports competitions were inaugurated by the Collector P. Amutha at the District Sports Stadium in Dharmapuri on Thursday. To mark the inauguration of the competition, Ms. Amutha lit the torch at the stadium. She also administered the pledge on HIV/AIDS to the participants. Later, she flagged off the competitions for youth. Competitions would be held in volley ball, basket ball, foot ball, kabaadi and ball badminton etc. N. Ayyanar, Deputy Director (Health Services), M.L.A.s V. Mullaivendan (Morappur Constituency), L. Velusamy (Dharmapuri), representatives of local bodies, officials and representatives of the NGOs participated.