She could not continue her studies after Class XII due to family problems. But today Lakshmi, a Badarpur resident, is standing on her own feet. Defying all odds, Lakshmi is running a boutique on her own, thanks to her association with non-government organisation Prerana. “Earlier I never ventured out of my home and didn't know about a lot of things. At the NGO, I received training in stitching. I also came to know about my role as a citizen and got awareness about my legal and health rights, the need to become economically independent and not to get subjugated by someone on the basis of my sex. As the atmosphere at the organisation was congenial, I shared my problems with the coordinator and she offered me solutions,” says Lakshmi, a Badarpur resident. Lakshmi's former coordinator A. J. Abidi said her life had undergone a sea change after her association with Prerana. “We provide training in Delhi's six villages at Lal Kuan, Tajpur Pahari, Methapur and Zaitpur. Most of the families have migrated to Delhi from other places. We keep them updated on HIV/AIDS and about their rights in family and society. Training in physical endurance is imparted with a view to keep eve-teasers at bay.” Reena, who could not join her classmates in Class XII because her father had to be hospitalised, said her life changed after that incident. “But I refused to accept defeat as I was determined to do well in life. I am receiving vocational training and would either work in an export house or take loan and run my own business,” she says with confidence that belies her age. Garima, a programme coordinator with Prayatn, another NGO, says her organisation seeks to empower marginalised women to lead an economically independent life. “We believe in community-based interventions. With support from the Unniti Foundation, we have been successful in empowering young girls. The vocational skills given to them have led to behavioural changes. There is delay in marriageable age. Tips on reproductive health rights are also given. We also have Crisis Intervention for Rape Victims in South East district that is in touch with 17 police stations.” Fifty per cent of underprivileged patients are given quality eye care treatment free of cost at Dr. Shroff Charitable Eye Hospital. “The remaining 50 per cent charged from affluent customers helps us to run the hospital. The Unniti Foundation has encouraged us to go beyond eye care. The challenge before us now is to train girls from rural backgrounds in eye care,” said Kiran Mehta. Unniti Foundation head Kaval Gulhati, who organised a function here to mark the organisation's 21 {+s} {+t} anniversary, said the Foundation has been providing grant to organisations and projects in India and Nepal including Prayatn and Prerana. “Today our micro-philanthropy model shows that we have extended support to over 600 projects. The grants are used for imparting vocational training, health awareness and educational scholarships for career advancement of women,” she added.