For a cause: NGOs play a tremendous role in creating social awareness on many health issues. Photo shows a campaign on HIV/AIDS in Bangalore    I am an engineering graduate. I am interested in a career in NGO/Rural Development. I am firm on my decision. Kindly guide me. Lakshminarayana Udupa via e-mail It is good to find qualified individuals looking at the Non-Governmental Organisations/Rural Development segment as an opportunity to work and serve the society. Besides pursuing courses in Rural Development, involvement with an NGO will help one to assess the field better. The opening up of the micro finance sector is another opportunity. Since leading corporates now have corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, the horizon expands. NGOs focus on poverty alleviation, environment, hunger eradication, education, adult education, to mention a few. One of the best institutions to pursue a programme in Rural Development is the Institute of Rural Management (IRMA) (www.irma.ac.in), Anand, Gujarat. IRMA is one of the centres of excellence for studies in Rural Development. It offers the Post-Graduate Diploma in Rural Management (PDGRM), a two-year capstone residential programme which is a huge attraction. For a master's programme in Rural Development by the distance learning method, M.A. in Rural Development offered by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) (www.ignou.ac.in), provides opportunities to learn/unlearn the nuances of the subject. Being an engineer is a sure advantage as you can focus on the aspects of technology and related facets and help society. The web site www.indianngos.com will provide the readers information about various types of NGOs and the service offerings. I am in first year B.E. (Mechanical Engineering). I had scored 53 per cent in PUC, but got a seat by clearing CET 2010. I am worried that I will not be able to score well from now onwards. I am told that 65 per cent is a must for qualifying and to get a job in the technical field. Because of the fear factor, I am not able to concentrate on studies. Please guide me. Vidyadhar U. Pikale via e-mail Do not develop cold feet. Let the past rest, as if it were an aberration. You have to look at the positives four years ahead; and promise yourself that you will focus on getting to the best of learning and information. By staying focused on the core aspects of study, you will surely succeed. Do not wallow in self-pity as this will consume you. I am pursuing second year B.A. (Psychology, Optional English, Journalism) in a college in Bangalore. I will be graduating in 2012. I want to know about the leading universities which offer postgraduate studies in psychology. Amulya B. via e-mail, Bangalore Planning early is good for any student. Most of the Universities in India offer M.A. or M.Sc. Psychology as a two-year (semester or annual) programme. The Bangalore University's Department of Psychology is a good option for higher studies. If the intent is get to research, then you will have to pursue M.Phil and Ph.D. I am pursuing the LL.B. three-year course from Bangalore University. I shall be graduating in 2012. I am interested in pursuing LL.M. Let me know its scope. I am also interested in academia and teaching. Should I consider working for a law firm after LL.B. degree and then consider LL.M.? Sana Saleem Khan via e-mail, Bangalore There are various programmes on offer viz. Three-year Law degree after graduation (LL.B.) Five-year Law degree after PUC (B.A./BBA-LL.B.) Post-graduation in Law – LL.M. Doctorate – Ph.D. The Bar Council of India (BCI) (www.barcouncilofindia.org) has ensured quality in legal education and we get the best brains to manage the legal systems of the country. A majority of learners who complete LL.B. focus on practising in courts or a legal firm. A few pursue LL.M., where they specialise in various aspects. LL.M. and Ph.D. are required to pursue the profession of a Faculty member and a researcher. On completion of LL.M., one can do specialised practice with a law firm and ensure success. Practising in the courts will give you the relevant experience. The five-year law programme has brought about a sea change in legal studies. Moot court, internship, legal writing, drafting and conveyancing have ensured that the students understand the nuances in a much better manner. Some of the universities and institutes even have speed reading programmes, which will help in one's career. It has been observed that practice in the courts or a firm will help one be a better teacher as one gets to the issues of law in a dynamic manner. I am a B.Com graduate through correspondence and have enrolled for a MBA programme through distance mode. I was not able to take up regular programmes for various reasons. Can I pursue any of the accounting related certifications? I do not mind attending classes in the evenings and on Saturdays/Sundays. Please provide the contact address. Preethi Kumar via e-mail Those with a Commerce background take up finance and accounts as a field of study. An MBA is always an added advantage as it provides a managerial perspective. Your final project should be in an organisation that will help you to have a job offer at the end of the project. A qualification in the field of Finance will always be handy. Pursuing ICWA/ Company Secretary programmes would help you to get better opportunities. Study of Cost Management Accountancy provides in-depth knowledge and perspective to manage business. The Institute of Cost and Work Accountants of India (www.myicwai.com) conducts the ICWA programme and you can take it up in tandem with the MBA. You can contact the officers of the ICWAI Bangalore Chapter at 81, Mallikarjuna Temple Street, Basavangudi, Bangalore-4. Ph: 26507082. E-mail: icwablr@datatone.in The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ww.icsi.edu) is a premier national professional body established by an Act of Parliament and functions under the Ministry of Company Affairs. It has its headquarters in New Delhi and operates through four regional Councils located in Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai and New Delhi. It has a total of 69 chapters and satellite chapters spread all over India. You will have to assess the functioning of a Company Secretary and take a decision on the area you would like to select. A Company Secretary is a link between the Board of Directors, the shareholders and the Government. He also establishes a close working relationship with the regulatory authorities. All companies seeking listing on the stock exchange are required to appoint a whole-time Company Secretary Membership of the Institute is recognised for appointment to superior posts and services under the Central Government Membership of the Institute is an essential qualification for recruitment from Grade I to Grade IV in the Accounts branch of the Indian Company Law Service. You can even start independent practice and reap the benefits. This can be done once you consider yourself stable in the corporate world. For more information and details you can contact the Bangalore Chapter at Sheriff Chambers, III Floor, Rear Block, 14, Cunningham Road, Bangalore-52. Ph: 22286574, 2261861. Shaheed Khan