COMMITTED Dr. Paulin Neuma Rani with her children   | Photo Credit:  SOMA BASU Young, gutsy and sincere, Dr.Paulin Neuma Rani dares to chase a different dream, says SOMA BASU B eat this. She is just 30 but is “amma” to 50-odd children. When you meet soft-spoken Paulin Neuma Rani, she belies every inch of her acquired image. Just like next door college girl, she talks of her dreams and desires. And in the process silently reveals she is made of different stuff. “I was always an average student and since both my parents were working, I wanted to be a full-time housewife,” she admits. But obviously destiny had planned it otherwise. This “average” student of St.Joseph's School who joined B.Sc. (Home Science) in Fatima College went on to do double M.Sc – Medical and Psychiatric Social Work from Madurai Institute of Social Sciences (MISS) and in Psychology through correspondence – eventually got a Doctorate degree from Mother Teresa University, Kodaikanal. She also has a PG Diploma in Counselling from Madras University. If this enviable list of academic degrees attached to Dr.Paulin doesn't stir, then the fact that she is a foster mother to 45 children whose parents have already succumbed to AIDS or are in their death bed or are afflicted with HIV, surely will. She houses them in a kalyana mandapam – ‘Rani Mahal' in Shanthi Nagar – once run by her advocate father and was a major source of family revenue. Now it is “Pneuma Home”, (Professional Network for the Emancipation of Under privileged Masses), abuzz not with seasonal wedding music but with the daily chatter and cacophony of children aged between four and 17 years running around, playing, screaming, shouting, fighting, studying or rehearsing for some programme. Dedicated It is simply amazing to see how Paulin handles them all with occasional help from her father, some like-minded friends from MISS and volunteers from city colleges. Every summer she picks up new children – depending on the financial position of the Trust, of which she is the director. It was registered in May 2003, a month before her mother's death. “A nurse by profession, my mother was very bold. She always encouraged me to take on challenges may be because she was under continuous medication following a major heart attack when I was two years old. When she was not bed-ridden, she would be working hard. Many times, my father took care of me, from cooking to sending me to school. And I always thought I will avoid this hardship and be happy as a dutiful housewife and mother,” she shares. Today, Paulin works 15 hours non-stop from the crack of dawn. “It takes at least six months to train these children. When they come, they don't care about hygiene or language and are simply not interested in studying. They don't know how and how much to eat. I keep drilling into them the value of education and good life.” The old children are trained to wake up on time, go through their morning ablutions and get ready for school by 7 a.m. They also help the younger ones take bath, wash their clothes and get dressed even as Paulin makes breakfast for them, which varies from porridge to ragi drink or idlis depending on availability of items. In the middle of this, she gets her four-year-old son ready for school. “From 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., I am free and take care of cleanliness and administrative work of the Trust. We have about 250-odd sponsors but at times survival is on a day-to-day basis too,” she says, recalling days when there was not a morsel and suddenly a good Samaritan appeared donating 200 kilos of rice. “It is like a miracle and I believe God is watching us,” she says simply and reveals that even a Rs.10 contribution from an autorickshaw driver means a lot to her. Full of gratitude She values her contributors like a retired gentleman from Virudhunagar or a daily wager from Sivakasi or a quarry worker who courier her small amounts unfailingly every month. “These people are my motivation because it is amazing to know their trust in me,” she says humbly. Once the children are back from school, she spends two hours teaching them and after an early dinner (usually a full meal), she retires for her own domestic chores. How she started? After PG in 2001, she casually applied for Coordinator's job with European Commission's Care and Support programme for HIV-affected people. It required her to visit petrol pumps and highways along with her team members after midnight to speak to lorry drivers or Female Sex Workers to create awareness among them. “I used to feel awkward standing close to them or when some men deliberately asked embarrassing questions. But I managed and started thinking about the future of their families. Everybody then talked of prevention and awareness and I worried about the children of these already affected individuals. My father was initially angry but my mother said, if I could, I should help these poor children and set up a Trust first,” she recalls. With three like-minded MISS friends contributing from their pocket and becoming Trustees, Pneuma Trust took off with five children. “I want to get more children, particularly girls, from rural areas,” says Paulin. She takes only boys now in her home as she does not have enough funds and facilities to keep girls. However, she is funding three girls fully for their education and hostel stay. “My father supports me now but my husband gets angry and my in-laws don't quite understand why I am doing all this,” her smile doesn't fade. “Why”, I persist and she replies in simple words: “I love and enjoy my work. When these children go for vacation to their villages, I feel upset.” Come any hardship, Paulin believes God and good people are there to help her and one day she will emerge with her dream fulfilled. (Making a difference is a fortnightly column about ordinary people and events that leave an extraordinary impact on us. E-mail to somabasu@thehindu.co.in to tell about someone you know who is making a difference).