Health matters: Visitors haivng a look at displays at the ongoing 'Swasthya Mela' in Berhampur on Tuesday. — Photo: Lingaraj Panda    ‘Swasthya Mela' a six-day-long festival of holistic approach to wellbeing and health is drawing good crowd in the city. This health mela is being organised jointly by the Berhampur chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), South Orissa Phramacists Asociation (SOPA), Ganjam Phulbani Chemists' and Druggists' Association (GPCDA) and Ganjam Zilla Swasthya Samity. This festival is being held at City High School ground. It was inaugurated on June 11 and it would conclude on Wednesday. There are about 35 stalls. During this festival the organisers have decided to provide all diagnostic tests at 50 per cent discount. The patients who get registered at the festival are eligible for getting this benefit at three major diagnostic centres of the city. The National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and Orissa State AIDS Control Society (OSACS) have opened up stalls in this festival. To provide a holistic approach to health consciousness alternative medicine sectors like Ayurveda, Homeopathy and naturopathy have also been included in this festival. Rabindra Kumar Sahu of ‘Surya Acupressure' said hundreds of people are everyday coming over to enquire about the efficacy of acupressure for their ailments. Pharmacy colleges of the city have also opened up stalls to create awareness about proper use of drugs. The vice-chairman of the organising committee Bishnu Prasad Panda said every evening health tips and vital information regarding ailments are being provided in an entertaining way. Plays, folk dance forms are being used for the purpose. Nupur Sanskrutika Sangh from Cuttack performed a play on menace of Malaria. Daskathia performances are being held to create AIDS awareness. On Tuesday Abani Patra from City hospital elucidated the audience about diabetes and its management. He also answered questions from the audience. On Monday Siba Patnaik from MKCG medical college had took part in a similar session on cancer.