A MAN OF SUBSTANCE Suniel Shetty photo: SHIV KUMAR PUSHPAKAR    H e may walk with the arrogance of a star but his voice exudes warmth. Unlike many of his peers , he doesn't fake an (English) accent despite being safely home with an impressive vocabulary. In fact, he laces his chat with proverbs in Hindi. He talks with the passion of a dedicated actor and the friendliness of a next-door neighbour. Meet Suniel Shetty, who, in “Red Alert — the war within” (directed by Anant Narayan Mahadevan), essays an offbeat role. The story, inspired by the first-person account of a reluctant Naxal convert, is penned by Aruna Raje. Shetty admits, “Finally, for me, it's a step forward — the kind of role I have never performed. As I have been reading about the Naxal movement, it helped me do the film better.” About his role, Shetty says, “I play farmer Narasimha who gets trapped in the Naxal movement. He attempts to convince his leader (Vinod Khanna) that the gun is not the answer. The film emphasises that wisdom is bigger than weapons, and one must think rationally.” Suniel feels for such issues personally too. Before the Kargil war ended, he went to Kargil, Drass, and other places where refugee camps were set up. “After I worked in J. P Dutta's ‘Border' and got to know the problems of thousands of displaced Kashmiris and other people in the region, I went to meet them. I told them I haven't come to meet them as an actor, but as a fellow human being. It took me sometime to convince them. . Through my NGO (‘Save the children') and another NGO, ‘Pride', I did whatever little I could.” The actor has also adopted Mahad, a village, on the outskirts of Maharashtra. “Through my NGO, we have rescued girls from brothels and taught them life skills. We even provide education to orphaned children. We have constructed hospitals. All these give me immense satisfaction,” he says. The actor's 15-year-old shares his father's social concerns. “Ahaan has his own music band of which he is the lead singer and guitarist. He also teaches the speech and hearing impaired to play the guitar.” Back to talking about films, Shetty says that since visibility matters, his presence in commercial films is a must. He insists “Red Alert” is not the route to serious films. But in the same breath, adds, “failure of big budget, star-studded, content-less films is a lesson” for the weakening film industry. “The film industry has lost its distribution network. Now, there are more takers for regional films. I do need films such as ‘Thank You', ‘No Problem' and ‘Hera Pheri 3' (forthcoming projects) to remain in the fray. I enjoy comedy, but I would keep on doing offbeat films to stay grounded,” he concludes. RANA SIDDIQUI ZAMAN