Patna: The rollercoaster ride to success of an illiterate Bihar youth, who launched a radio station and promoted social messages on various issues but was arrested for illegally running it, has found place in school textbooks. The story of Raghav, in his mid-20s, and his ‘Raghav Radio' has been published by the NCERT in its book “Bharat Mein Samajik Parivartan Evam Vikas” (Social change and development in India) for Class 12. The book describes Raghav as a role model for development in society. It highlights his struggle and the difficulties he faced after starting ‘Raghav Radio' in Mansoorpur village in Vaishali district. Raghav, who currently works as the project head of a community radio station in Rajasthan's Ajmer district, said his “story in the NCERT book will inspire people to make a difference in society”. The book mentions Raghav as being born in a family too poor to provide him with education. It was in 2004 that Raghav launched his radio station that very soon became a hit with the villagers. The station operated like a community radio service providing local news and views in the local dialect. Apart from Hindi songs and news, it provided information about crime in the area, programmes on AIDS awareness, polio eradication, literacy initiatives and news about missing people. And all that free of cost. The media highlighted his story and he became very popular. The union communications ministry took notice too -- but that was to be his undoing. In 2006, the ministry sought a report on the legality of the private radio station. Raghav did not possess an operating licence as he was too poor to pay the licence fee and too naive to understand that it was illegal. ‘Raghav Radio' closed down. The government arrested him for a brief period. Later, many NGOs came forward to help him and gave him vocational training. Impressed by his talent and struggle, the Barefoot College at Tilonia in Rajasthan appointed him the head of Barefoot Community Radio Station, the first of its kind in Rajasthan. His mission to inform and educate continues. - IANS