Whether the property market is booming or dull, construction workers have always been getting only poor and inadequate wages. Last few years of recession have only hit them harder, as nearly 30 per cent of the workers in Bangalore weren't even needed. Builders and developers point out that some of the biggest projects planned were not able to take off. That is just scratching the surface of the construction workers' state-of-affairs. Some have been lucky to get continued years of work in a project, but the work conditions they are exposed to are a sad commentary on safety issues prevalent at construction sites. While top developers may claim to have done their bit to see these men and women better off on duty, there are too many mid-range and lower range builders who are indifferent to the safety issues. Scaffolding giving way in high-rises is one of the most common complaints, just as a sunshade slab recently came crushing down when one of the workers stepped on it for support at a project in Madivala. Availability of drinking water for nearly 80 workers is a challenge at a project on Bannerghatta Road, while roadsides are the only available toilets for workers at a construction site in R.T. Nagar. At Cox Town, a five-storeyed building had to resort to men and women carrying 100 bags of concrete in a day as the open materials-lift had a technical snag! In Hegde Nagar, a woman worker from Bellary wasn't able to take her fever-ridden son to a doctor fearing the one-day loss in her wages. Why are we so insensitive to the needs of the construction workers? When these people form the backbone of the sector, what is it that prevents builders from providing amenities for their safety and health? What global construction ethics underline seem far-reaching, for India still has to address the fundamental and critical needs that are basic to working conditions. It is here that Mfar Constructions comes into focus for its sensitive approaches towards providing safety measures at project sites. Its awareness initiatives and meeting the healthcare needs of workers at project sites has earned it laurels. Mfar Constructions has bagged the ‘British Safety Council's International Safety Award' for safety policies and procedures. Mfar being the first construction company in Karnataka to receive such a prestigious accolade,   spoke to its CEO,  , on its achievements and the issues that dog the industry in general. Graduate civil engineer Bhanu Kanti Dhar, with 34 years of construction industry experience, spent a major part of his career in the Middle East. After a five-year stint at Galfar Engineering in Muscat that saw him execute quite a few international projects, he took over the Indian operations of Mfar from 1996. Mfar has completed 103 projects in India that includes residential, commercial, IT parks and institutions. Work is on in 57 projects.Mfar periodically reviews the safety management systems and addresses potential hazards at sites to ensure risks are reduced. Having observed that a high percentage of accidents was triggered by the unsafe behaviour of workers, the company's training system has a work culture that simplifies material handling and workers feel equipped with relevant knowledge. One has to provide protective equipment and train workers in behaviour-based safety features so that attitudes change towards occupational health risks. Cover the workers under the ‘Workmen Compensation Policy'; hygienic labour accommodation facilities like lights, fans, mattresses, mosquito nets for workers staying at the site; separate cooking areas in the camp; clean drinking water; bathing areas and proper toilets; crèche for the children of the workers; clinic with first aid facilities; changing the mind-set of female labourers to wear trousers and jackets at construction sites instead of loose saris which are a safety hazard; and providing safety shoes to tackle slippery patches… The expenditure on safety and other facilities provided by the company is approximately one per cent of the value of the project, but sometimes this has to be increased because of the site conditions. Mfar has employed a full-time medical officer who regularly visits sites to monitor the health of workers and their families, check the hygiene & sanitation at the labourers' camp, provide first aid boxes at sites, etc. We bring in awareness on HIV/AIDS, and counsel people on the harmful effects of liquor and drugs. We carry out preventive inoculation/vaccination of the workers. A medical check-up camp is also being organised at regular intervals. Clinics are established at all the construction sites with some emergency medicines, stretcher and dressing facilities. In addition, the ‘Mfar Health Centres' at Bangalore, Kolkata and Mangalore can house two or three patients for short durations. Earlier, most of the companies used ‘ballies' for construction of high-rise buildings but these were very unsafe. Since its inception, Mfar has been using system formwork for its construction activities. This includes Cup-lock Scaffolding System, Mivan Shuttering System and Sten Formwork System. These are not only safe but also speed up the construction. Moreover, there is a saving of wood since no trees are required to be cut for ‘ballies.' Also, LVL batons are used in place of wooden runners and these are eco-friendly. Ranjani Govind