EXCELLENCE WITH THREAD: Attractive melange of colours on display. PHOTOS: R. SHIVAJI RAO    J ust 10 in the morning on a week day, but already C.P. Art Centre, Chennai, had women walking into the three-day Anchor Stitch Kit Exhibition cum Sale. A demo embroidery session was also on, and lovers of the craft were hovering around the teachers to learn as much as possible in limited time. Interestingly, Coats India, the 175-year old establishment that deals in sewing thread and manufactures embroidery skeins under the Madura Coats Anchor brand, comes up with several innovative ideas to promote the craft among children even from the primary school level (beginning age five) and elders alike. At Anchor's freestyle workshops 10 kinds of stitches are taught in just a couple of days, competitions are held and prizes given away. Kasuti, zardosi, mirror work, you name it, and you can learn it. “More than 4.5 lakh women have benefited from our endeavour,” says P. Sasikala, consultant, Anchor Educational Service (Ph: 93826 80771). Competitions for various age groups at school and college have been on the agenda for several years now. “All India inter-school contests yield astounding results,” she says. “And for elders we have All India Championships.” Anchor gives applicants 30 days to complete and send in their entries that should have long and short stitches embroidered on cloth. The works of several competitors and Anchor's teachers that adorned the walls of the exhibition was a visual treat for connoisseurs! “Those who have been trained by us have now become teachers and are part of our faculty too. Some of them have set up boutiques,” says Sasikala, and introduces two young women, Benila and Jenitha, who had come over to help her at the ongoing workshop. Both are from the Madras Seva Sadan Industrial Training School. “They have also trained under us and Jenitha is already a teacher,” Sasikala tells me. At present Anchor has 20 demonstrators in Chennai alone. The company provides the syllabus and the teachers have to take it from there. Srividya, a certified Anchor pedant with a decade of experience, has been conducting classes in Chennai in tatting, smocking and much more. Arts and crafts should help children psychologically too. “Of course, and when the tots are taught to make useful items with waste products, they get innovative ideas and are thrilled with their creations,” laughs Sasikala. Thus a worn-out stove burner becomes an attractive fruit basket and ordinary matte transforms into a beautiful book mark! The base product is of course thread. At the rate of 5000 students a day, a recent workshop in Perambalur District helped 10,000 college students learn the rudiments of embroidery in just two days! But the services are possible only for short durations because the teachers at the service centre keep travelling to various schools throughout the State and outside. “Hence we conduct orientation courses for craft teachers in various schools,” informs Sasikala. Trichy Innovative Ladies' United Needlework Association (TILUNA) has entered the Limca Book of Records with 1200 enthusiasts (including 15 men) replicating the Rajagopuram of the Srirangam Temple in embroidery. “When the announcement was made we had volunteers joining the project from as far away as the U.S.,” smiles TILUNA's secretary, G.K. Krishnaveni. She's also a tutor for Anchor in Tiruchi. “We will soon find a place in the Guinness,” she adds. But how was such a mammoth task feasible? “We supplied each of them 100 skeins of thread in 10 colours, and the material. The time given was 12 months, everyone delivered,” Krishnaveni makes it all sound so simple. But it's been a Herculean effort. “Yes, when we held each of our pieces in a row, the length ran to more than three km!” The ‘gopurams' are for sale now – the framed ones cost Rs.10000 and the others Rs.8000. “We use the money for service activities for the poor,” she says. Among those who joined TILUNA in creating the gopuram on cloth were Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and aficionados from various other religions. “Art and craft are unifying factors,” states Krishnaveni. The embroidery enterprise proves it! The various embroidered items on display by experts and school