UNITED WE FIGHT: Prabu Solomon, fourth from right, director, Mynaa and other members of his team being felicitated at the annual day celebrations of Anbalayam on Monday. — PHOTO:R.M. RAJARATHINAM    The hope of synergy for expanding service, generated on Monday, really mattered for Anbalayam, the Tiruchi-based organisation working for respectable living of the wandering mentally ill, which celebrated its 21st anniversary with flourish by felicitating the   team and observing awareness against HIV-AIDS. The producer, director, hero, lyricist, comedian and other mainstream artistes, who together defined team work and played pivotal roles in making   a runaway success, committed their support to the Anbalayam for expanding its ambit of service to humanity far and wide in Tamil Nadu. “We are in the process of working out a plan to enable Anbalayam gain a foothold in Chennai. The identity of Anbalayam will gradually be established in Coimbatore and Madurai regions as well with our support,”   Director Prabu Solomon promised, describing the Founder of Anbalayam T.K.S. Senthil Kumar as the hero in real life. Incidentally, the event also turned out to be a memorable occasion for the hero, Vidharth, who celebrated his birthday with the pristine wishes of differently abled children and children suffering from HIV/AIDS supported by Anbalayam. The sense of satisfaction was akin to the contentment one gets in places of worship, Vidharth explained. Thambi Ramiah, the vivacious comedian, was certain that hard work was bound to pay and that Anbalayam was poised to scale greater heights. John Max, the producer, felt honoured to be associated with Anbalayam in the service of humanity. And so was the retired professors of St. Joseph's College G. Balakrishnan and N.Arunachalam showered blessings on both alumni Mr. Senthilkumar and Mr. Prabu Solomon, deriving pride in the impact they have been creating in the minds of the public in their own ways. Prof. Arunachalam wished the   team to come up with more ventures, offering movies sans the goriness of violence and sex. Prof. Balakrishnan felt it was the journey of love that has brought together   team and Anbalayam, which has created a poster on HIV/AIDS awareness with participation of the   team. Lyricist Yugabharathi expressed his desire to bring out a compilation of poetry with his own contribution and that of film world personalities, and to dedicate the book to Anbalayam. The proceeds of the book would be gifted to Anbalayam, he said. Earlier, students of Bishop Heber College, Periyar EVR College and Srimad Andavan College of Arts and Science enacted plays to quell misconceptions about HIV/AIDS. Mentally challenged children came out with scintillating dance and singing performances personifying the evenness of their capacities with their normal peers when it comes to displaying creativity.