Ramya Kannan CHENNAI: A new global partnership, Critical Path to TB Drug Regimens (CPTR), has been formed to bring drug companies, civil society and regulatory officials together to speed up approval for novel TB therapies. The CPTR is the first such significant collaboration of its kind in the battle against TB. With guidance from the U.S. Federal Drug Administration (FDA), CPTR partners will work together to test promising TB drug candidates in combination and identify new regulatory pathways to bring these therapies to the public realm. The core partners and founders of the initiative are the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development (TB Alliance), the Critical Path Institute and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Initial groups engaged include scientists from FDA and pharmaceutical companies Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi-aventis, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Bayer, Otsuka, Novartis, Sequella and Anacor Pharmaceuticals. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has expressed its support for the initiative. TB kills more than 1.8 million people every year and there are 9.4 million new cases each year, primarily from developing countries. Bobby John, president, Global Health Advocates, who is also part of The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria, says, “India has the largest share of TB burden in the world after China, and we have a growing multi drug resistance problem, so an accelerated drug discovery program is of critical importance to sustain India's gains against the disease made over the last decade.” The current line of treatment for TB is a combination of four drugs which must be taken over a six to nine-month period. “By working together, CPTR partners can take years off the drug development timeline for safer, new TB drug regimens,” Raymond Woosley, President, Critical Path Institute, one of the agencies that facilitated the collaboration, is reported to have said. With the rapid and lethal spread of drug-resistant TB, speeding the development of new, simpler and more effective drug regimens is no longer just an option, but a major public health imperative. India to benefit Dr. John says the CPTR effort can benefit India specifically as “many of the CPTR partner companies have also invested in India, and have sizeable market shares.