Aarti Dhar NEW DELHI: Schoolchildren in Patna are these days “hooked on” to a new hobby of accessing and contributing to the virtual resource centre that gives them updated information about gender, maternal and infant health, adolescent health and birth-related issues. Initiated by the Jansankhya Sthirata Kosh (JSK), the virtual resource centre (VRC) provides access to advocacy material in the form of films, posters and photographs. It also has the provision of downloading the material or ask for it on CD from the JSK or the National Population Stabilisation Fund. The Centre allows the students or any interested individual or an institution to contribute to the resource centre. However, the material received is scrutinised for content and quality before being made public, says Shailaja Chandra, Executive Director of the JSK. With a view to involve adolescent schoolchildren in the awareness campaign, the JSK tied up with several government and private schools in Patna, where the concept of the resource centre was explained and the children encouraged to highlight related issues either in audio or visuals forms. Apart from bringing out the talent among the children, it will also help create awareness through correct and updated information to help children grow into informed adults ready to make the right choices, Ms. Chandra told The Hindu. Within a few weeks, the JSK received several video tapes from a public school, where students have become enterprising journalists asking questions to the elderly women in the family, maids and other disadvantaged women about the adverse impact of illiteracy, early marriage and early motherhood on their lives and whether they would want the system to change. Through this approach, the JSK expects to motivate young people to refuse societal pressure to prove early fertility, shun dowry and determination and disapprove of female foeticide. The JSK is now planning to hold similar interactions with students in other States also and will begin with the national Capital. It has already written to the Vice Chancellors of several universities to designate a coordinator, who would promote similar activities at the college and university level. While some universities have already done it, others have promised to do so and, as expected, there are many who did not even respond. The resource centre provides information on infant health, child health, adolescent health, women in reproductive age group, population matters, HIV/AIDS, healthcare delivery system, personal hygiene, sexuality and various government schemes.