A city-based voluntary organisation organised an exhibition of cartoons sketched by children suffering from or infected with HIV. A child made a cartoon stressing the need for keeping surroundings neat and tidy to avoid breeding of mosquitoes. As the conversation in the cartoon was in Telugu, one of the coordinators of the NGO acted as a translator to a group of German visitors. The German guests were very impressed with the message. But, the other visitors were very amused when the coordinator told the German guests that rash on hand was result of last night’s mosquito bite. “Annadana” (free lunch), cricket competitions and such events have seen a spurt in numbers of late. The leaders of mainstream political parties are vying with one another in holding such events to grab public attention. More than this, these leaders look at these events as the best way to impress their parties’ top leadership. Aspirants for contesting elections have become more active as the elections are drawing nearer. These leaders use every occasion to organise these events. Birth and death anniversaries of top leaders offer best occasions for these leaders. In a light-hearted manner, one leader says that this is not limited to urban areas. Even farmers are benefiting from this, as “Bull competitions” are being increasingly held all over the State these days. Scribes were anxious by the sudden increase in the frequency of BJP State president Bandaru Dattatreya holding press conferences in the city. The senior leader held two press conferences here within one week. The scribes suspect that this will be the case until the February 4, the day the party is organising its Vijaya Sankalp Yatra. Senior leader Lal Kishna Advani will be attending the meeting on the day, Mr. Dattatreya announced. Mr. Dattatreya doing the usual routine recited all the points he wanted to express to the media. Enduring the verbal onslaught seemed to be the least of the reporters’ problems. After that found that they had to shout to get Mr. Dattatreya’s attention. More difficult the question the louder they have to shout. Most of the time he answers only after the person sitting next to him on the dais relays the question to him. Is the BJP leader developing a hearing problem or does he have a problem listening to piquant questions? That is the million dollar question bothering the media community here. Officials of State Bank of India at the local level made every possible effort to impress their Big Boss O.P. Bhatt, Chairman of the State Bank group, during his recent visit to the city. Women from Lambada tribe were brought into accord a warm welcome to the special guest in a traditional way. A visibly delighted Bhatt walked in amidst drumbeats and Lambada dance. A folk troupe, engaged to enthuse the visitors with a ‘Burra Katha’ began the performance by recounting how under the dynamic leadership of Mr. Bhatt, the bank had launched a string of welfare programmes. In their inimitable style, they said Mr. Bhatt was here to dole out huge sops. But even before they could speak of the different schemes, the organisers signalled time constraint and asked them to make way for the chief guest’s speech. Left with no other option, the artistes quietly withdrew from the scene, all thanks to the late arrival of Mr. Bhatt by over an hour. (G.V.R. Subba Rao, G. Ravikiran, G.V.Ramana Rao, and P. Sujatha Varma in Vijayawada)