Full of enthusiasm: The Nilgiris Collector, Anandrao V. Patil, flagging off the ‘TB Walk’ in Udhagamandalam on Friday. —   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent Udhagamandalam: Unmindful of the hot winter Sun and the distance, nearly 200 people participated in a ‘Walk to fight TB’ here on Friday. Organised by the district administration and the District Tuberculosis Centre, the trek, which was flagged off at Charing Cross here by the Nilgiris Collector, Anandrao V. Patil, concluded at Coonoor after covering 18 km. Among those who participated were tribals, members of self-help groups and non-governmental organisations like the Indian Red Cross Society and students, including girls. The Deputy Director, Medical Services (TB), P.J. Vasanthan, who led the walk told ‘The Hindu’ that the event was organised as part of the worldwide efforts to focus attention on the scourge which was claiming the lives of thousands of people every year. Stating that the situation on the TB front was alarming, he said that it had emerged as the leading cause of suffering and death. In view of the threat posed to mankind by the malady, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had declared it a global emergency. In India, TB was the leading cause of death among all infectious and non-infectious diseases with two lives being claimed every three minutes. Almost 5,000 cases were being detected everyday. Since 1998, the Revised National Tuberculosis Programme of the Central Government was being implemented in a phased manner. Dr. Vasanthan lamented that not many were aware of the fact that if TB was left unchecked over the next 20 years, about one billion people will be infected,200 million will join the list of TB patients and 35 million will die of it. Out of nine million new cases reported every year, Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan and the Philippines accounted for half. TB was among the leading killer of people living with HIV. Three quarters of a million people living with HIV developed TB every year. TB can be successfully treated even is someone was HIV infected, he added.