Comprehensive study: Collector Mahesan Kasirajan, State Health Secretary V.K. Subburaj and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan looking at the exhibits at the exhibition on herbs, organised as part of a Siddha conference organised in Erode on Saturday.    Staff Reporter ERODE: Tamil Nadu Government is engaged in documenting the best practices available across medicine systems, Health Secretary V.K. Subburaj has said. “Every system of medicine has a speciality and provides comprehensive, complete cure for certain diseases or ailments, which needs to be documented and the Government is at it,” he said at the inauguration of a regional conference on the role of ‘Siddha and Homoeopathy in Geriatric Care’ in Erode on Saturday. “The purpose of the documentation and the subsequent publication is to provide the public with cost-effective and best treatment across medicine systems.” Giving an example to underscore his point, Mr. Subburaj said Siddha and homoeopathy systems offered best solutions in treating childless couples vis-a-vis allopathy. “Ten per cent of couples in the country are childless and they mostly depend on allopathy for a solution, which is costly involving lakhs of Rupees. The success rate is only around 30, though,” he pointed out and added, “Siddha and homoeopathy offer excellent remedy at a fraction of the cost.” He also narrated the incident of homoeopath providing a cost-effective solution to treat kidney stones. The Secretary then touched upon cancer and AIDS and said the country had the highest percentage of people living with Cancer and AIDS to drive home the point that as the two did not yet have a remedy in allopathy it was time to look at Indian systems of medicine. Director of the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy G. A. Rajkumar said of the 1,452 primary health centres in the State, only 479 were endowed with an Indian medicine system branch. Another 110 centres would be equipped with the branch this year, he said and added that in the course of time all the centres would have an Indian medicine system unit so that people visiting such centres had a choice. Mr. Rajkumar said that in the Eleventh Plan the Union Government had allotted Rs. 4,000 crores for the Department and the State hoped to get at least Rs. 800 crore. He also urged Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan to fund the construction of Indian medicine system centres in primary health centres in her constituency using MP Local Area Development fund. Collector Mahesan Kasirajan said the challenge before Siddha doctors was to make the medicines as user-friendly as allopathic medicines. S.K. Maeilanandhan, chairman, SKM group of companies, said one should take equal care of mental health as well. He urged Siddha practitioners to not go the commercial way and preserve values. Senior Government officials, Siddha doctors and others were present at the function.