Special Correspondent VELLORE:The Departments of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Community Health Nursing of Christian Medical College, Vellore, will be conducting a Hepatitis-B awareness campaign for healthcare workers, school and college students and the public on Thursday, Friday and Saturday in the CMC car parking area near Hotel Sushil on Arcot Road. Briefing newspersons at the hospital on Tuesday, George M. Chandy, head of the Department of Gastroenterology and C. Eapen, professor of Gastroenterology, said that the campaign was part of the Hepatitis-B National Prevention Programme launched by the hepatology team of the CMC Hospital in partnership with the mission hospitals in India and the Bristol Myer’s Squibb Foundation. The campaign was being conducted in collaboration with A Hepatitis B Awareness And Safety (AHBAAS) Initiative. Dr. Chandy said that Hepatitis-B was a dreadful infection and its prevalence rate in India was high. Hepatitis-B vaccine could provide the people lifelong protection against the infection. “The aim of our project is to create awareness of Hepatitis-B infection, its complications, ways of transmission, as well as safe practices to prevent Hepatitis-B and the importance of vaccination so that we can wipe off this disease completely. Prevention is possible only through creating awareness, which, at present, is lacking. People come to know about the disease only when they have a cirrhotic liver or get liver cancer,” he said. Dr. Eapen said that though there were seven medicines for curing Hepatitis-B, the AHBASS Initiative and the CMC Hospital wanted to conduct the campaign to stress on the preventive aspects. Dr. Chandy said that the World Health Organisation classified the countries as having a high level of prevalence of Hepatitis-B if it was seven per cent, intermediate if the prevalence was between two and seven per cent, and low if it was less than two per cent. India was in the intermediate category. The Union government had accepted the recommendation of medical fraternity to include Hepatitis-B vaccination in its national immunisation programme. The CMC Hospital was getting the vaccine at a subsidised cost of Rs.15 a dose from the manufacturing companies for its immunisation programme and campaigns. Each person should have three doses at regular intervals. Tinu Kurian, project manager, AHBAAS Initiative, said that the campaign on Thursday would be for health professionals in Vellore, on Friday for school and college students, and on Saturday for the public. It comprised Hepatitis-B vaccination, a free health check-up, health education, dietary education, incentive spirometry test for lungs, prevention and treatment option for HIV/AIDS, puppet show, video show, health quiz, free blood sugar test for diabetes, advice on lifestyle modification for health life, health advice for the aged and games. The campaign would be conducted from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. on all three days.