Staff Reporter PUDUCHERRY: Nearly 70 students of Alpha Matriculation Higher Secondary School participated in the drawing competition organised by World Wildlife Fund on the occasion of Salim Ali’s Birds Day celebration last month. Two students A. Vishnu Prasath and S. Padmanaban of Class XI won the prizes for the best paintings on birds. Students from Class III to XI took part in the competition and painted pictures of different colourful birds. State Director of World Wildlife Fund V. Dakshinamurthy distributed prizes and certificates to the winners. Principal of the school V. Bashingam and Director Dhanathiyagou congratulated the students. At Blessed Mother Teresa Model Higher Secondary School, a talent search competition was conducted by the Department of Computer Science – IT Buzz. Students took part in various events and bagged prizes. Vice Chairman of Puducherry Municipality A. John Kumar and Manager of the school Fr. Paul Rajkumar distributed prizes and certificates to winners. Two students of Class XI Balaji and Godwin Samuel bagged the third prize for their project work at the science and technology exhibition – ISPC 2009, an inter school science project competition organised by E.S. College of Engineering and Technology, Villupuram. A cash award of Rs.3,000 was presented to the students. Nearly 50 students of the school attended a seven-day National Service Scheme camp from January 19 to 25 at Worth Trust, Nainarmandapam. They visited different areas for the field work and participated in seminars including on health education and AIDS awareness. The Royal Australian Chemical Institute organised the Australian National Chemistry quiz at St. Patrick School. The quiz papers were designed to assess the Higher Order Thinking Skill and solving the questions needed interpretation, thinking, analysing and synthesizing ability. As many as 109 students of St. Patrick School came out successfully with 10 high distinctions. School Correspondent Regis, Principal Fredrick and Quiz co-ordinator Arokiaraj supported the event. At the English Essay writing competition for school children on currency management, conducted by the Reserve Bank of India, S. Kasirajan of Class VII bagged the second prize of cash award of Rs.3,000 at the national level. Students Velfer Daniel of Class VI, Tejas of Class III, Vignesh of VI and Sudheesh of Class VI won the first, second, third and fourth prizes respectively in the karate tournament conducted on January 25 and 26. Arihanth of Class II, Jasmine of Class III and Ramanaprasad of Class I were some of the other winners of the school in the tournament. The school celebrated the annual sports meet on January 30. Students belonging to blue house emerged as winners. A student of Class V of Achariya Bala Siksha Mandir, Uppalam G. Sheethal Naher secured the distinction in grade 4 examination in spoken English conducted by Trinity College in London.