Staff Correspondent DAVANGERE: A sophisticated machine that can help diagnose whether a person has dengue or chikungunya will soon be installed at the Chigateri General Hospital here. People need not go to Bangalore or Manipal to get the test, called a viral culture, done once the equipment is installed. Disclosing this at the Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) review meeting held here on Saturday, president of the Davangere Zilla Panchayat N. Nagappa said the equipment had already been purchased and would be installed in the next few days. He said the equipment would help people get a correct diagnosis of other diseases too. The zilla panchayat also planned to purchase an electronic microscope soon, he said and added that the panchayat was committed to providing advanced medical treatment to the people of Davangere district. The absence of District Health Officer (DHO) B.G. Banakar was also discussed at the meeting, and the president instructed the zilla panchayat Deputy Secretary, Rudrappa, to issue a show-cause notice to the official for not attending the meeting. The president said he had noticed that the DHO and a few other officials were repeatedly absent at KDP meetings, which were meant to facilitate better governance. He also told the Deputy Secretary to instruct all officers to get written permission from the chief executive officer or the president if they had to attend to any urgent work on the day of the meeting. An officer who represented the Health Department said on behalf of the DHO that 119 persons in the district were found to be HIV positive in the last six months. Six of them had died. S. Venkatesh, chairman of the Standing Committee (Health and Education), alleged that officials in the Education Department had misappropriated funds meant for building midday meal kitchens in schools. He also instructed officials of the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company not to resort to frequent power shutdowns at night as students had to prepare for their examinations.