Four theatre artistes from the UK speak of scientific impact and the magic of drama UK-based directors Jeff Teare and Rebecca Gould were called to look into the different schemes in international public engagement, while freelancing at Wellcome Trust and later, at the Bill and Melinda Gates HIV AIDS foundation. Then, they collaborated with Arundhati and Jagdish Raja’s Artistes’ Repertory Theatre to form TheatreScience, a science and theatre collaboration. Their third collaboration this year comprises six Indian theatre practitioners and four British — Shereen Martineau from Ireland and Richard Pepper from England, including the directors. The project began as a residency at the National Centre of Biological Sciences (NCBS), guided by Professor Mukund Thattai and discussions with scientists Dr. Suhel Quader, Dr. Sumantra Chattarji and Dr. S. Jain. The four theatre artistes from the UK talk about the deconstruction of scientific impacts and the magic of drama. We started at Henry Wellcome’s Wellcome Trust which researched into the history of medicine and the human genome, with an emphasis on the political, social, ethical and environmental aspects of science on the developing world. Our aim is not to teach science, but deliver good theatre. It was about the nature of exchange of ideas. It is important for the Western audience to get an Indian perspective on bio-medicines, which will be different and similar at the same time. From Indian homeopathy and Ayurveda, traditional Western medicine to allopathic drug-based medicines and non-drug treatments, we also have looked into behavioural therapy and invented diseases like post-traumatic stress disorder, which is basically a money-making exercise for lawyers. We wanted to make connections with the human story. It is a great concept where we take the drama out of science. Working with Indian actors for four weeks now meant finding a common language. The importance is that there is not one answer found, but questions raised. It allows people to be informed about science which can be factually incorrect.  “Amol’s Story” is a children’s story which will later travel across schools. And “The Clearing” is about Lantana, a British-planted multi-coloured ornamental flower-species which is invasive in nature. They are grown everywhere in India, especially in Mudumalai. While it completely takes over the forest, the villagers have also depended on it for their livelihood of making furniture. It also touches upon the invasive nature of NGOs and ecologists. For more on the Theatre of Science, log on to 