Henri Matisse’s 1911 oil painting “Les coucous, tapis bleu et rose” (The Cowslips, Blue and Rose Fabric) sold for €35.9 million ($45.6 million), at a sale of art from the estate of Yves Saint Laurent in Paris.   | Photo Credit:  Vaiju Naravane Paris: The auction of the late French designer Yves Saint Laurent’s private art collection surpassed all predictions on the first day of the three-day sale on Monday, netting his lover and business partner Pierre Berge some €206 million for just a third of the 733-piece collection. Theirs was one of the most fraught but enduring relationships in the turbulent and highly-charged world of Paris high fashion. For 50 years Yves Saint Laurent, enfant terrible of French haute couture and his businessman and opera loving partner Pierre Berge, lived and worked together, stunning the world with their audacious creativity, unfailing business sense and ground breaking designs. Equally fascinating to the world of art and fashion was their openly homosexual relationship which, despite riding waves of jealousy, tenderness and despair, withstood the test of time in a milieu where unions are often brittle and fleeting. Yves Saint Laurent died last June at the age of 71 after a long battle with brain cancer. Their eclectic and highly prized collection of paintings and art objects, now on show in an opulent exhibition at the Grand Palais, went under the hammer at an auction organised by Christie’s. The 733-item collection which includes paintings by Picasso, Mondrian and Matisse as well as several Old Masters, rare Art Deco objects and antique bronzes, is expected to fetch over €500 million at a time when the art market has been described as “depressed”. “There is not a day, not a moment when I do not think of Yves. In his absence the collection has become meaningless,” Pierre Berger said in an interview. “The proceeds will go to a foundation that fights AIDS and to another in his memory that promotes artistic and cultural work.” A km-long queue of visitors eager to get a glimpse of the rare collection snaked around the Grand Palais over the week-end. Auctioneers Christie’s have built sets recreating Saint Laurent’s legendary Paris flat in the rue Babylone for a real-life take on the 733-item collection. From a Cubist-period Picasso to a Brancusi sculpture never seen in public and a rare Eileen Gray designer chair, Berge and Saint Laurent decorated their homes in a crossover of styles that came to epitomise quintessential Parisian taste. “People are proud of what these two men have achieved and very proud of the collection,” said Jonathan Rendell, deputy chairman Christie’s Americas. “It’s magic. You’ve got the combination of the quality of the material and the name of the collectors. We’ve never done this big an event.” The two started collecting art in the 1950s, when the designer found fame at the Paris fashion house Christian Dior. As their fortunes grew with the launch of Saint Laurent’s own line, they continued to collect, working largely with private dealers and buying what caught their eye.