Special Correspondent CHENNAI: A toll-free helpline for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA), Hello +, was formally inaugurated here on Tuesday. Health Secretary V.K. Subburaj launched the helpline and made the first call on 1800-419-1800 posing a question from a real incident of discrimination to the counsellor. Speaking as a representative of a Chennai college, he said a couple of staff at the engineering college had been detected to be HIV positive. Students of the college were exercised by this and demanded that the cooks be dismissed from service. The counsellor advised him not to sack the staff and instead to provide counselling to the college management and the students, assuring them that transmission of the virus through non-sexual routes was literally non existent. Mr. Subburaj, speaking later, said the counsellor had provided satisfactory responses and he was sure that the helpline would be of benefit to PLHA and others with co-infections such as Tuberculosis and sexually transmitted diseases. Hello+ would address a long-felt need in the state’s HIV/AIDS control programme that had otherwise done very well in the areas of prevention and care and support, he said. It was absolutely crucial for positive people to be able to talk to others about their problems and seek help from professionals. Being able to voice their problems would bring down the burden substantially, Mr. Subburaj added. He suggested that some psychiatrists also be roped into the project. Hello +, conceived and implemented as a public-private partnership between the USAID funded Aids Prevention and Control Project at VHS and Tata Business Support Services and Tata Teleservices, will also see the involvement of the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society and networks of PLHA and NGOs. Bimal Charles, project director, APAC, said while at present the helpline would be operational in Tamil Nadu, the Andhra Pradesh government had also expressed a willingness to join the programme. Eventually the facility would be available in all languages. Even today, people from all over the country can contact the number for information, but will receive information only in Tamil, Telugu, English and Hindi. He thanked the Tata group for providing free software and subsidising fifty per cent of the STD call charges. S. Vijay Kumar, project director, TANSACS, said networks of positive people should encourage their members to register for anti-retro virals. A total of 50 link ART centres are coming up in the state in order to facilitate more PLHA to get treatment. Next year, 40 more such link centres would come up. He commended APAC and its partners for setting up a service that would be of help to all PLHA and those hesitating to test themselves for HIV. Kerry Pelzman, Director, Public Health and Nutrition, USAID, released the information, education and communication material for using the helpline and handed over the first copy to a representative of positive networks. She said USAID began supporting HIV/AIDS prevention and control activity in Tamil Nadu in 1992. Touting the helpline as an important milestone in public private partnership in the battle against HIV/AIDS, she added that no government could tackle the epidemic by itself.