Special Correspondent SALEM: For the first time in this part of the state, leaders and elders of different faiths have taken a positive decision to form an inter-religion committee to sensitise their community people on HIV+/AIDS and make them eschew the evil trait of discrimination. They have assured that henceforth it would be their responsibility to take the social message of preventing the scourge and avoiding taboo and discrimination attached to the disease to the grass root level people with whom they regularly interact in the places of worship including in remote villages and tiny hamlets. Their pledge of support to this sensitive issue of social responsibility was made in the interactive meeting initiated by the Salem Young Women’s Christian Association (YWCA) here recently mainly to seek the support of religious and community leaders on the issues of prevention and discrimination. Bishop of Salem Diocese, Most. Rev.Fr. Singarayar, Salem Jamia Masjid Muthavalli Nassar Khan and Sivakami Paramasivam from Bharatiya Janata Party along with a host of community elders and men from other faiths got engaged in an engrossing and open discussion for nearly two hours after YWCA screened a power point presentation on the travails of HIV affected, particularly the children. President Suriya Benjamin presented the issues and needs of the people living with HIV/AIDS and assisted the forum to find solutions to certain critical issues that are related to the infection. On how to prevent the HIV infection remained the prime agenda in the schedule. The YWCA decided to prepare materials on Information, Education and Communication and hand over the same to these religious leaders to carry on their crusade against the social discrimination and prevention. Religious leaders were asked to educate and inculcate moral discipline among the youth. They should counsel the needy. They also subscribed to the view that government should make testing of HIV mandatory before marriage. The committee decided to meet often and discuss the new prevention strategies. The leaders assured their support and to take care of their communities. The YWCA, according to its general secretary Ruby Thiagarajan, has been extending care and affection to nearly 2000 affected children in five blocks of Salem district, which has been a high prevalence pocket in the state and also a home-based care to another 400 or so.