Moving images A scene from “Rightful Place   | Photo Credit:  A film festival brings alive different aspects associated with human rights violations Whether it’s the Israel-Palestine conflict or India-Pakistan clash, human rights is the biggest causality. Food for thought is the need of the hour, and the city is hosting a documentary film festival where the discerning will find plenty of it. Breakthrough, an international human rights organisation, has come up with the 5th Tri Continental Film Festival. Called “Human Rights in Frames”, the festival lasts till this Sunday. Festival director Alika Khosla says the festival focuses on human rights violations in the global South. “This time we got 150 entries, out of which 28 have been selected for screening.” She says the films talk about war or the impact of war in myriad ways. “For instance, Behind Forgotten Eyes talks about sexual slavery perpetuated by Japanese forces in Korea. Similarly, Buddha Collapses Out of Shame shows how Talibans don’t allow girls to study in the name of Islamic principles. The film follows a young Muslim girl in Afghanistan who wants to study.” Then there is an Iranian film Forbidden Sun Dance, which shows how people practising dance forms were exiled from Iran. “Another interesting film is Brides of Allah. The Israeli entry shows women militants who have decided to die in the name of Allah after their husbands deserted them,” says Alika. There are five Indian films including Paromita Vohra’s Morality TV and the Loving Jihad – A Thrilling Tale. “It talks about how authorities decide the morality of the society in the light of police objecting to the meeting of lovers in a park in Meerut. Then there is Flying Inside My Body, which addresses the issue of stereotyping the identities. It is made by four students from Jamia Millia Islamia,” shares Alika. There are films on displacement and human rights of AIDS patients as well. Rightful Place deals with a touching episode in Kenya where in 1974 the Endorois community was evicted from their land by the government to make way for a game reserve and tourist resort. The community continues to struggle for reparations for their loss and restitution of their land. Yet, their efforts have been met only with denial, harassment and further eviction by successive Kenyan governments. The films are on show at Bharti Auditorium, Alliance Francaise, Lodhi Road, till January 18.