Creative head E. Suresh    E. Suresh is one of the two Indians on the jury of the prestigious Clio Awards Even before the first ball was bowled at the inaugural Indian Premier League, the pitch was prepared. Cricketers in their team colours, like gladiators, swished and swayed in what was conceived a royal battle ‘Karmayudh.’ This ad campaign that was a perfect curtain-raiser to the pulsating matches was the creation of the Mumbai-based Famous House of Animation (FHOA), one of the premier animation studios in the country. They were also behind the first-ever animated music video and were the first to launch clay animation commercials in the country. The creative force behind all these creative endeavours and more is Kerala-born E. Suresh, 35, founder and creative director. The legendary Famous Cine Labs & Studios, founded in 1946, got into animation in 1998. They hired the expertise of Suresh, a fresh graduate from National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, to produce a television series based on the popular Amar Chitra Katha comic book. “That project did not go beyond the initial stage. But we made a start, formed a fine team. Over the years we have grown into a creative film making company rather than a mere animation service provider,” says Suresh. Today FHOA is a known name globally and Suresh is the heart and soul of it along with partner Famous Studios Ltd. He has a portfolio that covers genres ranging from television commercials, to short films, music videos and most recently long format animation. He was the head of the animation team for the production of the international award-winning film ‘The Freedom Song,’ directed ‘The Legend of Shivaji,’ a 22-minute animated film, directed the ‘Slim vs. Slim for Levis’ that won numerous international awards and was a strong contender for the Grand Prix at Cannes in 2006 and FHOA is the only company from India selected by UNICEF to work on spots for Pandemic awareness. “We have a couple of interesting projects lined up. There’s a 12-minute film with Johnny Bravo as the main character, which will be broadcast worldwide on Cartoon Network. ‘Neki & Pooch Pooch,’ a 3D animated series and ‘Jungle Rules,’ a 3D animated show, both for children and adults.” A dream project for which work is on is a full-length animated feature film. Set in 15th Century India, it is loosely based on history and mythology of the time. “We have called it ‘Broken Sword’ for the time being. It is a kalaripayattu-based action film in mixed media. The trailer was screened at the Hiroshima film festival and the response was very encouraging. We will be ready with this work this year.” Along with all this work Suresh and his team keep working on television commercials, public service messages and channel packaging. ‘Bust That Noma,’ a film that helps prepare children afflicted with cancer to go in for treatment is one such film. “Another public service film on female infanticide was nominated for the final at the Cannes Lion in 2003. We did a lot of research and study for a BBC Worldwide film on HIV/AIDS.” On the jury of the prestigious Clio Awards for the last two years, one of the two Indians on the panel, Suresh feels that there is a limited pool of talented people in this field. A trained Carnatic vocalist; most of Suresh’s free time is spent listening to music. Wife Nilima, an illustrator/animator from the Delhi College of Art, who is into children’s picture books and six-year-old daughter Ananya make up the family.