Life as it is A scene from the play “Sangeet Giribala”.    DIWAN SINGH BAJELI Chetan Datar’s last play “Sangeet Giribala” is a brilliant piece of experimental art. “This Play is about life, which is to be lived with full zest in spite of absence of our Departed friends.... The play is about Smiles, Laughters and shared happy moments with our Dear Ones... The whole play is a mixture of Present and Future, Melancholy and Laughter, Hard and Tender. So...Enjoy with care.” This was the brief directorial note written by Chetan Datar about his production “Ram Naam Satya Hai!” for the NSD Repertory Company in 2006. Chetan is no more. In the absence of the ‘departed friend’ we watched “Sangeet Giribala”, his last work, which was featured at the recent Rang Mahotsav at Kamani Auditorium. Born in 1964, Chetan died in August 2008 leaving behind an impressive body of theatrical productions, plays, adaptations and translations. He also left behind colleagues at Awishkar – a dramatic group formed by creative people in Mumbai, and his admirers, friends and relatives. A graduate from Mumbai University, Chetan began his training in the theatrical art under Satyadev Dubey, the doyen of Indian theatre. He worked as a research associate with National Centre for Performing Arts. Though based in Mumbai, he left an impact on the Hindi region too. Some of his outstanding productions like “Mata Hidimba”, “Wada” and “Ram Naam Satya Hai!” had been featured at different Bharat Rang Mahotsav editions, captivating discerning audience. An episode from the Mahabharata, “Mata Hidimba” depicts the valour of Ghatotkacha, the son of Bhima and Hidimba, and is invested with contemporary meaning. “Wada” is a takeoff from Mahesh Elkunchwar’s famous Wada Trilogy: “Wada Chirebandi”, “Magna Talyakathi” and “Yugunt”. “Ram Naam Satya Hai!” depicts the world of AIDS patients in a hospital who are abandoned by their kith and kin. In the midst of hopelessness, the director discovers life and laughter. His translation of Ramu Ramanathan’s “Cotton 56, Polyester 84: the city that was Mumbai” featured at Bharat Rang Mahotsav under the direction of Sunil Shanbag in 2007 at Kamani Auditorium. It was a memorable production. His range as a creative theatre artist was amazing. As an actor, his performance in “Raaste”, “Chhoti – Chhoti Baatein,” “Davedar”, “Avinas; Avinas ek Dhyas” deserve special mention. Recipient of several awards including the Kala Gaurav Award for direction, the Natya Darpan award for best playwright and Maharashtra State Government Award for the best young theatre worker, commitment and passion were the key to his artistic vision and style. Though known for his serious and hard-hitting social and political satire, Chetan’s art had another dimension too, his flair for directing comedies. His production “Aankh Michauli” for SRC Repertory Company in 2007 was among the 10 best productions of that year. Shrikant Verma, a senior artist of SRC who played one of the leading comic roles in the play, says, “Chetan Datar was a friendly and affectionate person. We have interacted with him twice. Once, he conducted a workshop for us and the second time we acted under his direction in ‘Aankh Michauli’. He would talk about his Guru Satyadev Dubey with a sense of reverence and admiration. About our comic roles, he would say we have to be comic without being vulgar because the play is about the adulterous hidden motives of married couples.” Commenting on his last offering – “Sangeet Giribala” based on Rabindranath Tagore’s short story “Maan Bhanjan,” one can say that it is a brilliant experimental art work to create a new dance theatre format – Rang Nritya. Engaged in this experimental pursuit for about a decade, he has been collaborating with classical dancers – Guru Rajeshree and Shri Vallabh Arekar. A drama–within–drama, it is the blend of popular acting style, classical dance, music, popular Hindi lyrics, epic tales and slice from contemporary life. The production offers unforgettable aesthetic experience with its female protagonist challenging the oppressive system of patriarchy. It was an evening to mourn the untimely death of an artist and also to celebrate his last offering, an artist who believed in smiles, laughter and sharing of happy moments in the face of despair and death.