FOR A CAUSE: J.P. Ajit at one of his roadshows.   | Photo Credit:  For J.P. Ajit, his mini truck that doubles up as a mobile magic unit has been a second home for quite sometime. Accompanied by his visually challenged wife Lish, who is a magician in her own right, he travels around the State using magic as a tool to espouse social causes. Mr. Ajit, a peon at the Cotton Hill Girls High School in Thiruvananthapuram, often fulfils his love for magic at the expense of his salary. When his usual quota of leaves runs out, he goes on leave without pay, of course, without any regret. Since his performances are mostly for government campaigns the returns are not hefty. “I don’t perform for business but as a social service,” he justifies the rather nominal fee he charges. Mr. Ajit claims that his magic troop Jems is perhaps the only one to stage a show for as little as Rs. 1,000. he has not done badly what with 4,000 shows, including close to 2,000 road shows for propagating public interest messages, to his credit. No wonder, he sounds proud when he says, “I have no gurus.” The handbooks on magic that he collects from street side vendors and during his innumerable train journeys are his teachers. As a child, when he expressed his wish to learn magic, his mother had tried to dissuade. His first foray into magic happened as a Class IX student as he convinced the audience with a vanishing ring act. This must have spread by word of mouth, for he soon landed with an opportunity to perform at the annual function of the local unit of the Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi. “That was the turning point and gave me the confidence to perform on stage,” Mr. Ajit says. Magic also gave him his better half. Lish came to him as a magic student and eventually ended up his life partner much to the anger of his rather conservative father. Their three-year-old son is named, interestingly, Ashish Republic, since he was born on a Republic Day. Mr. Ajit is now on a trip to Palakkad as part of the State AIDS Control Society campaign to create awareness on the deadly disease. There are days when he had to perform on as many as eight stages, leaving him exhausted. But as long as it’s for magic, Mr. Ajit is not complaining. M.P. Praveen