Staff Reporter CHENNAI: As drug discovery is becoming more challenging, institutes of higher learning and their students have a greater role to play in research initiatives on molecular medicine, Associate Professor of the Department of Biotechnology, IIT-Madras, Rama Varma said here on Sunday. Speaking at the inaugural function of a three-day international conference on molecular medicine at IIT-Madras on Sunday, he said, “The institutes like IIT contribute by providing human resource for tackling the challenge. The pharmaceutical industry has to make use of the resource effectively for better results.” “Drug discovery is an extremely expensive affair. With the absence of drugs for around 98 per cent of diseases, fruitful international collaborations in the field of drug discovery will be a boon,” said C.N.Ramchand, President and CEO of Laila Pharma. Experts in the field of molecular medicine from various countries would be addressing the conference, organised by Laila Pharma in association with the Department of Biotechnology, IIT Madras, Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Stella Maris College for Women. Several international organisations, including Florida International University, Miami Children’s Hospital, International American University, National Institutes of Health, and Food and Drug Administration are also actively participating in the conference. They have deputed scientists in the core areas of molecular medicine, to give specialised talks on their research, said Dr.Ramchand. “The theme of the conference is the application of molecular medicine in drug discovery. The focus will be on the different aspects of therapeutic applications in the field of HIV/AIDS, drug abuse, inflammatory diseases, cancer biology, infectious diseases and dementia,” he said. The major topics for scientific deliberations will be infection and dementia, viral infections, epidemiology, drugs and neuronal diseases, inflammation and immunology, molecular/therapeutic targets and pharmacological interventions, metabolic disorders and phytopharmaceuticals.