Staff Reporter ERODE: Seventy-four hand pumps, 36 power pumps, 21 over-head tanks, 22 ground-level tanks, wells in all the 53 habitations, 260 tube lights on streets, 22 sodium vapour lamps, 15 television sets for public viewing, a veterinary sub centre, a primary health centre and a sub centre, 100 trees on either side of the road for 600 m, several awareness camps on health, rights, etc. for public, compound wall for school, effective utilisation of Government funds and MLA constituency development fund and above all realising Gandhi’s dream of complete rural development – all these have fetched the Mayilampadi panchayat in Bhavani union the State Government’s Uthamar Gandhi Award. Subsequent to the State Government awarding the panchayat with a certificate, shield and Rs. 5 lakh and panchayat president M.A. Thirugnanasambandam with a certificate a medal, the Public Relations Officer N. Balaiah went to the panchayat to report the development works. He, in a release says the panchayat’s activities can broadly be categoried into four major heads: initiation of development activities, investment of money in projects that will increase income, launch of innovative schemes and effective utilisation of funds. The 8,020 people of the panchayat have easy access to water, as the panchayat has installed hand and power pumps in all the habitations, besides constructing tanks. Mr. Balaiah says the president Mr. Thirugnanasambandam has provided all the 53 habitations with water supply and now proposes to provide water connection to houses. “The president has sent a proposal to the Government to supply water for 230 houses, which, if granted, will help the panchayat have a deposit of Rs. 2.30 lakh and a monthly income of Rs. 80,000.” Similarly, every street in the panchayat has a street light and main road sodium vapour lamp. There are 15 television sets for public viewing as well, the release says. The primary health centre in Mayilampadi and sub centre in Kannadiyampalayam cater to people from Chennampatti, Jarathal, Paruvachi, Thottiyampalayam, Varadanallur and Kurupanaickenpalayam, and in consideration of the importance of the health centre for the people of the area, the upgrade of the PHC in to a Government is in the offing, the release says. In his release, the Public Relations Officer also says that the president, Mr. Thirugnanasambandam, has conducted several awareness camps on child labour eradication, AIDS, and also ensured that children in school-going age are in school. The president has also overseen the effective implementation of Government schemes like distribution of free colour television sets, gas stove, old age pension, etc. Mr. Balaiah further says that the president has installed automated switches to switch off street lights and motors, so that there are power savings. He has also installed a meter to monitor water inflow for correct payment of bills. Likewise, the panchayat president has also ensured that there is no pendency in tax collection. As part of the over-all development, the needs of not-so-privileged Scheduled Caste members have also been taken care of in that the panchayat has provided 134 houses for the purpose.