Blood collected from donors and packed in bags being stored in direct contact with ice in thermocole boxes in Vijayawada on Tuesday.   | Photo Credit:  G.V. Ramana Rao VIJAYAWADA: Several lapses in the handling of blood after it was collected from the volunteers came to light at the Tiranga Unity Blood Donation Camp organised in the city on Tuesday. There is a possibility of all the units collected at the mega camp being contaminated in the process of it being transported to the walk-in cold storage at the Rotary Red Cross Blood Bank in Gandhinagar. All the blood bags were packed in crushed ice against guidelines. According to the guidelines of the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), ice should be clean and not come into direct contact with the blood bag. Only ice packs should be used to keep the blood bags cool, so that the water formed from the ice does not contaminate the blood through the seal. When ice comes into direct contact with the bag, it causes the red cells in the immediate vicinity to freeze and undergo haemolysis. The refrigerant recommended by the WHO for short-distance shipment was wet ice in leak-proof plastic bags. Super cooled ice-cubes or dry ice are not recommended. “We do not know where the ice came from and who crushed it,” said a paramedic given the task of packing the blood bags in thermocole boxes. Since the blood collection booth was away from the point where the blood bags were sealed, there was a delay in the sealing process. The paramedics, in a hurry to reach the bag sealing point, did not bother to cap the syringe needles after removing them from the donor’s body. Even these small lapses could result in contamination of the blood, as the collection was done outdoors and not in the aseptic confines of a blood bank. Even the persons manning the sealing points did not appear hygienic enough for the job, the paramedics said. The longer the blood bags were in the thermocole box, the more the damage would have been to the blood, the paramedics said. But no system was devised to ensure that the blood was shifted into the walk-in cold storage at the Red Cross Blood Bank. The thermocole boxes remained in a van outside the blood bank for extended period of time, while the driver attended to some engine trouble.