The Indian Institute of Foreign Trade organised a five-day in-service training programme for officers of the Indian Administrative Service this past week. The objective of the programme was to offer an overview of the World Trade Organisation and the new global trade regime, and analyse the implementation issues and their implications for India. As many as 17 IAS officers from various Central and State Government departments attended the short-term course. “Growing economic inter-dependence has significantly influenced the domestic economy. Inflow of low-priced foreign goods is pushing the Indian industries to shutdown leading to unemployment. The member-countries are required to follow the WTO regulations while making their policies as to what subsidies and incentives can be given to industry,” said the chairperson of the management development programmes, Rakesh Mohan Joshi. “Therefore, it becomes imperative for government officials, both at administrative and functional levels, to understand the implications of global upheavals and integration of trade and investment under the WTO framework,” he added. The course covered major WTO issues such as the scope, function and structure of the WTO, its implications for international business, trade protectionism, regional economic integrations, technical barriers to trade, anti-dumping measures and intellectual property rights. Indian Institute of Management Calcutta (IIM-C) has launched a general management programme for accounting professionals in the National Capital Region. The classes will be held at centres in Raja Garden, Ashok Vihar, New Friends Colony, Raja Bazar, Vikaspuri, Greater Kailash, Malviya Nagar, Pitampura, Mall Road, Gurgaon Sector 14, DLF Qutub Plaza and Noida Sectors 16 and 64. This course is for chartered accountants, cost accountants and company secretaries who aspire to make a career in the corporate sector. The directors of the programme are Asish K. Bhattacharya and Manju Jaiswall of IIM Calcutta. “The globalisation of business environment demands that finance professionals leverage the most advanced approaches to keep abreast of changes. This course is spread over three terms and covers topics such as Financial Risk Management, Financial Statements Analysis and Business Valuation, Corporate Restructuring (Mergers and Acquisitions) and Strategic Planning of Human Resources Values. The classes will be held after office hours,” said a release. The last date for submitting applications is January 25. More details about the programme are available at  . Leena Paquiza, a research scholar in the Department of Applied Chemistry at Zakir Husain College of Engineering and Technology in Aligarh Muslim University, has been awarded the “Young Scientist Award”. She was awarded for the presentation of her paper in Analytical and Environment Chemistry at the 27th Annual Conference of the Indian Council of Chemists held at Gurukul Kangri Vishwavidyalaya in Hardwar. Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, hosted the latest edition of its annual business conclave, “Manfest 2009”, on the campus this past weekend. The theme of the event was “Sustainable Development: Fuelling the future”. Several activities were held during the event, including social awards, entrepreneurship activities, sports conclave, start-ups conclave and an AIDS awareness marathon. Ansal Institute of Technology, Gurgaon, hosted its third alumni reunion last week. Several old students travelled from various parts of the world to attend the function. They shared their expertise and experiences and brainstormed on the prospective avenues for further accentuating a mutually beneficial liaison. The alumni held discussions with faculty members and expressed support for the growth and development of their alma mater. Parul Sharma