P. Sunderarajan NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet’s Committee on Economic Affairs on Thursday gave its nod for a scheme to encourage States to increase the supply of land and construct 10 lakh affordable houses. The scheme is designed to activate the measures announced for the housing construction sector under the economic stimulus packages. It will aim at increasing the stock of houses ranging from 300 sq. ft to 1200 sq. ft plinth area built at affordable rates on land provided by State governments. Construction and development is envisaged in public-private partnership mode. Private sector developers and builders as well as State Housing Boards are expected to be partners to the government and construct and develop projects with funding from institutional sources. The Central government will share costs on external civic infrastructure and connectivities for such projects on a reimbursement basis. A minimum of 25% houses of 300 sq. ft will be compulsory for EWS and weaker sections and the urban poor, in each project to be allotted by the government. A sum of Rs. 5,000 crore to be spent over the next four years has been set aside for this purpose. It also approved an enhancement in the allocation of the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission by Rs. 11,000 crore — Rs. 6,000 crore for the Urban Infrastructure and Governance component and Rs. 5,000 crore for the Urban Infrastructure Scheme in Small and Medium Towns component. Further, it cleared a proposal to develop the infrastructural facilities at the Jawaharlal Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, within three years, so as to comply with the Central Educational Institution (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006 at a cost of Rs. 384 crore. The admission strength for Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate courses would be increased to 150 and 122 seats from the existing 75 and 77 respectively over the next three years. The CCEA also approved the launch of a comprehensive Centrally-Sponsored Scheme aimed at providing safe and secure environment to the children of the country. It will provide preventive, statutory, care and rehabilitation services to all children in need of care and protection or in conflict with law as defined under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 amended in 2006 and any other vulnerable child including children of migrant families, families living in extreme poverty, children infected and/or affected by HIV/AIDS. The services that are proposed to be financed under ICPS include emergency outreach service through ‘CHILDLINE,’ family-based non-institutional care through sponsorship, foster-care, adoption and after-care. The Central government has provided an outlay of Rs.1,073 crore during the XI Plan period for the scheme.