Even if they did not expect the numbers that came by for the job fair, there was an air of expectance when GHMC Commissioner S.P. Singh announced it at a press conference. But, the question that followed soon after had him and his colleagues flummoxed. “Are you giving any job guarantee to the aspirants,” asked a wag with all seriousness! It took a few seconds for Mr. Singh to react. “We are giving them a platform to get employment,” he said and pointed out that the event was being held at a time when fears of recession were looming large on IT and IT-enabled services. Soon, he gathered his wits. “Is there a guarantee a candidate will stick to his job if better opportunities come by? My daughter too changed her job more than once during the boom time,” he said. Later, one of the firms which participated in the mela announced a “five year job guarantee”! Perhaps, taking the cue! It was a long wait for beneficiaries of Rajiv Gruhakalpa project to see their housing venture opened at the hands of Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy at Ahmedguda in Keesra Mandal last week. The hot sun only added to their discomfiture. At last there was a sigh of relief as the drone of the helicopter carrying the Chief Minister was heard and soon the chopper appeared. All the discomfort was forgotten. Though he spoke for a brief ten minutes, the Chief Minister livened up the mood with his characteristic speech. Recalling the ‘Arogyasri’ health scheme launched for the benefit of the poor, he said it was a big hit. “Just dial 108 and you can hear the ambulance coming,” he said mimicking the siren much to the delight of the audience. At the recent screening of a short film by hubby Rajesh Touchriver, Sunitha Krishnan, the face of ‘Prajwala’ lamented that the organisation’s name was being associated with sex and HIV. Children of workers at ‘Prajwala’ are stigmatised at schools for their unwitting connection with the organisation, she said. Indeed a disturbing observation, but a doubt lurks that Ms. Krishnan was trying to be too modest. Or else, who would recall sex trade or HIV when talked to about ‘Prajwala?’ The image claiming highest recall value at mere mention of the name is none but Ms. Krishnan’s own bespectacled, smiling, cherubic face. In fact, many people, even among media circles, mix up the organisation’s name with her name! A lot of speculation about Slumdog Millionare bringing home the Oscar awards ended with the movie bagging eight awards. News reports, panel discussions, hype, publicity, blogs, threads…what not! Probably it was the most discussed movie after Lagaan that was nominated for an Oscar award way back in 2002. Right from the music scores by A.R. Rahman to the child actors and story telling, all hands went up in the air when the film bagged the best picture award. And the Mozart of Madras Rahman has definitely brought laurels to the country. V. GEETANATH, J.S. IFTHEKHAR, SWATHI.V, ABHIJIT DEV KUMAR