In praise of efforts: Collector M.S. Shanmugam handing over appreciation certificate to G. Karunanithy, Block Medical Officer, Budalur PHC in Thanjavur on Tuesday.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent THANJAVUR: District Collector M. S. Shanmugham has called for co-ordination among health, education, nutrition, revenue, rural development departments and also local bodies to realise the health related ‘Millennium Development Goals’ set by the United Nations. Inaugurating the regional workshop on ‘Millenium Development Goals’ organised by the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine here on Tuesday, the collector said that four goals related to health, envisaged by United Nations and agreed upon by 187 countries in the world are eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, reduction in child mortality, improving maternal health and combating HIV/AIDS, Malaria and other diseases. The fact that 187 countries were signatories of the UN resolution shows that the problems are not related only to India but the entire world. But health department alone cannot work towards achieving these goals. They have to work in tandem with other departments. In Thanjavur district, thanks to the health department, child mortality and maternal mortality has come down over a period of years. Huge investments are made by the government for improving rural health. “There may be some deficiencies. But we should try to provide the best within the facilities available to the poor people. Any deficiency in public health care system can be brought to the notice of the district administration and got rectified,” the Collector said. The Collector distributed certificates for the best Primary Health Centres in Thanjavur district - Budalur and Ammapettai PHCs at the function. T. V. Sathappan, Dean (in-charge), Rajah Mirasudar Government Hospital said that India is moving towards attaining the status of a developed country. Cent per cent literacy and perfect health care should be achieved to reach that status. He suggested that pre-pregnancy counselling should be given to would be parents by doctors and health staff to bring down mortality in infants and mothers. The expectant mothers should be taught about genetic and environmental factors that might affect their pregnancy and children. K. Mathivanan, Deputy Director of Health, said that the workshop was a UNICEF sponsored programme. Health department staff from 11 districts including Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Tiruchi, Peramblaur, Ariyalur, Karur, Uthagamanadalam are participating in the two-day workshop. The aim is to assess how far we have progressed towards achieving the Millenium development goals. The goals should be achieved before 2015. N. S. Iyer, state consultant, UNICEF explained the objective of the workshop.