SPACIOUS: New block being declared open.    Special Correspondent PERAMBALUR: ‘Vidhyashram’, a residential school for the children infected and orphaned by HIV /AIDS at Sencheri village near here, got an additional facility in the form of a new block. The former Collector, Anil Meshram, declared open the new block named after Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan on Monday. The Vidhyashram, run by Human Uplift Trust (HUT), a medical non-governmental organization working for the HIV infected adults and children in Perambalur, is providing residential care free of cost to about 40 children in the age group of 5-11 years. The centre started functioning in June 2007 with the financial support from Asha for Education, NYCNJ, USA with Asha Florida as the steward of the project. The children were selected on a priority basis from the families of 2,000 HIV clients, who are registered with HUT in its community Care Centre, a hospital unit for the HIV patients, run with the support from Tamil Nadu State AIDS control Society (TANSACS) Chennai. ‘HIV infected, double orphans is our top priority’, says Raja Venkatesh, Dxecutive Director of HUT. The centre is now recognized under the Perambalur Sarva Siksha Abhiyan (SSA), which has trained the centre’s teachers under activity based learning method. In December 2007, land was acquired with the corporate donations from Kothari Sugars and Chemicals Ltd, IJM (India) Infrastructure Ltd., Indu Projects Limited, Vallalar Borewells. The Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Group of Institutions came forward to support the hostel block of the Vidhyashram and donated Rs. 15 lakhs. During the course of the project the Madras cements contributed 1,200 cement bags under their Corporate Social responsibility. A. Srinivasan, founder of the Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Group of Institutions, was present at the function. Gunasekar, Joint Director of Health Services, Mohan, Deputy Director of Health Services, Velammal, District Program Mananger, TNSACS, Chennai, Madan Mohan, Senior General Manager, Madras Cements, offered felicitations. A. V. Rajagopalan, founder president of HUT and R. Mahalingam, board member of the HUT thanked sponsors. With the new facility, the Trust now hopes to expand its scope of activities to more number of children, as the need is high with an estimated 250 HIV infected children and more than 400 orphaned children. Dr. Raja Venkatesh is also optimistic that this serene location would help build a healthy atmosphere for the kids from the social injuries these children had endured at this young age. The trust is going ahead with the construction of the school block and the treatment block. The other two blocks are supported by Asha for Education, NYCNJ, USA and Foundation HIRZEL, Switzerland.