Living with pride: An HIV positive woman manning a coin telephone box at a PHC in Salem district.   | Photo Credit:  R. Ilangovan SALEM: In their gloomy lives of despair, it has rung in the peels of hope. The ringing sound and the clatter of voices near a phone have turned out to be the most suitable livelihood support for those living and suffering silently in the remote villages and hamlets in Salem district. For those living with the infection, the monthly earning through the `One rupee’ Public Telephone Coin Box has not only kept their hearth burning but also enabled them to lead a quality life. This transformation is made possible through a collaborative venture of the Department of Health, Private telecom firms and Project Concern International (PCI), an NGO working among the people living with HIV and AIDS (PLHAs) here. The novel concept, first of its kind in the country, was launched in 2007 as a `pilot project’ without fanfare. Twenty coin phone boxes were fixed at a few Primary Health Centres (PHC) in the district and in places where the public congregate. Recently five more have been added. The project is based on `ownership’ concept wherein the beneficiary will have to pay Rs. 1500 as deposit to get a cost effective coin box. PCI’s S. Ramkumar says that Tata Telecom has offered them Rs. 500 as free talk time as initial incentive. After assessing its success, Reliance has also come forward to enhance the profit margin and AirTel, another service provider, has expressed its wish to join them. The project, according to a recent study, has thrown some healthy tales of survival. Says HIV affected Suresh (name changed), the only male beneficiary who runs a coin phone box at his village’s PHC, “The revenue through the Re.1 coin box ensures me a monthly income of Rs. 500 to Rs. 800. It enables me to supplement my diet with nutritional inputs, which are quite essential for a quality life.” His claims are endorsed by other beneficiaries, all women, who eke out a livelihood from these coin phone boxes in many villages and in urban pockets. They say that though they are on free ART, the revenue from these coin boxes helps them meet the expenses they incur on the nutrition-rich food. The study further says that 16 coin boxes, run by PLHAs, have erased the discrimination too. Among them are 19 women and of whom 14 are widows.Even after two years, 80 per cent of the boxes are ringing in a steady flow of money thus holding out a glimmer of hope to the victims. `Salem Success’ has spurred the motivators to expand the project at national level.