Relief: A. Tamizh, right, president, Network for Positive People in Tiruchi, explaining the grievances of people living with HIV / AIDS to V. Ramamurthy, second from left, First Additional District Judge, and other judicial officials on Wednesday.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent TIRUCHI: The State Legal Services Authority and the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) have proposed to open a Legal Aid Clinic at the Annal Gandhi Memorial Hospital in the city for the benefit of people living with HIV/AIDS, the First Additional District and Sessions Judge, V. Ramamurthy said on Wednesday. As a prelude to this, a couple of city advocates – K.A.V. Dinakaran and T. Jayanthirani, both panel advocates of the District Legal Services Authority – have already undergone training on issues confronting these hapless people, Mr. Ramamurthy said while speaking at a special legal awareness camp held here. The camp was jointly organised by the Tiruchi District Legal Services Authority, Parents Trust and Network for Positive People in Tiruchi for the benefit of the transgenders, people living with HIV/AIDS . People living with HIV and AIDS were being deprived of legal rights, more importantly property rights. They had to run from pillar to post for their employment, for their livelihood and even those employed are thrown out of jobs once they test positive. The proposed clinic will provide much needed assistance to such people. Mr. Ramamurthy said that legal experts should keep their doors open for rendering assistance to the HIV and AIDS affected people. The Judiciary was according priority for cases filed by such people and no unnecessary adjournment was being given, he added. The Judicial Magistrate V S. Jawahar referring to the complaints made by the people living with HIV/AIDS that they were being cheated by some people in the guise of curing them from the disease to grab money, urged them to come forward to prefer criminal complaints against such anti-social elements. Mrs. Jayanthirani, advocate and managing trustee of the Parents Trust, explained in detail regarding the training imparted to them recently on dealing with the issues concerning the affected people. The Chief Justice of the Madras High Court has insisted that the HIV and AIDS affected people need not worry on spending for fighting cases like property rights. The financial aspect will be looked after by the District Legal Services Authority and the Central Government has already earmarked adequate funds for this purpose, she said. Tiruchi district is second in the State after Namakkal in number of HIV cases. Legal Aid Clinic had already been set up in Namakkal and since vulnerability of AIDS patients had increased in Tiruchi district, the clinic had been proposed. The other speakers said that AIDS was like any other disease and urged the people not to discriminate those affected by the disease. The president of the Network for Positive People in Tiruchi, A. Tamizh and the Managing Trustee of the Transgender Community Action Network, A. Sonali explained the problems confronted by the transgenders and the people living with HIV/AIDS. The Principal District Munsif, S. Chandran, the II Additional District Munsif, Parthasarathy and K. A. V. Dinakaran also spoke.