Gritty Indian player : Immense potential and capabilities.   | Photo Credit:  K. KEERTHIVASAN When Somdev Devvarman outslugged former World No.1 and French Open champion Carlos Moya from the backcourt in the second round of the Chennai Open tennis championships this year, it signified the emergence, finally, of a gritty Indian player, who can challenge the best of the top players in the world.  With a sterling display, Somdev jumped to 155 in the ATP rankings, displacing Prakash Amritraj and Rohan Bopanna and becoming the No. 1 Indian singles player. The media interest surrounding him grew substantially once he outpunched the 6"10' Ivo Karlovic in the quarterfinals before receiving a walkover from German's Rainer Schuettler in the semifinals. Notwithstanding the frantic crowd support, the summit clash turned out to be an anti-climax as the 23-year-old lost to Marin Cilic rather tamely. The unexpected yet stirring performance in the Open gave a glimpse of Somdev's immense potential and capabilities. With a sterling display, Somdev jumped to 155 in the ATP rankings thereby becoming the No.1 Indian singles player displacing Prakash Amritraj and Rohan Bopanna in the process. The success he's enjoying now hasn't come overnight, but after years of toil and drudgery. Hailing from Tripura, Somdev shifted to Chennai after enrolling in Britannia Amritraj Trust (BAT - closed since 2003), a popular coaching centre which trained Leander Paes, Gaurav Natekar among others. It was at BAT that Somdevlearnt the ropes so to speak. Hispenchant for hardwork - on andoff the court - was developed atBAT. He clinched the junior Nationalchampionship title inChennai in 2002, a significantlandmark for the teenager. Hehad attributed his victory to therigorous training he underwentat BAT. Even then, he wasn't brash orboastful of his achievements. Hisgoals were clearly marked out.His ambition then was to representIndia in the Davis Cup - itwas subsequently fulfilled whenhe represented the country in theAsia Oceania Davis Cup tieagainst Uzbekistan in Februarylast year. At a time when critics smuglybelieved that Somdev would vanishfrom the scene like any otherimpressionable teenager, hecame up with some fabulous performancesthat forced all and sundryto take notice. From a ranking of 1036 at thestart of 2008 to 202 at the end ofthe year, Somdev showed his burningdesire to excel by topplingquite a few top 100 players on thetour. His two successive NCAA collegiatesingles titles in 2007 and2008 augmented his image as aplayer who is fighting fit. There is no doubt that his feetare firmly planted on the ground,thanks to understanding and supportiveparents. The guy, for whomChennai is second home, knowsthat he has a pretty long way to go:so many countries to tour and asmany defeats to learn from. Somdev looks like he's well andtruly prepared to take on the load. Somdev belongs to Tripura’s royal family. He is the grandson of Tripura’s late royal scion Bikramendra Kishore Debbarman, popularly known as Bidurkarta. He is now managed by Mamba International, sports management company based in Charlottesville (U.S.). He is a product of Britannia Amritraj Trust, like Leander Paes and Gaurav Natekar. He got his first AITA Zonal (Under 16) title in 1998 at Thiruvananthapuram With the NCAA victory, he joins Mikael Pernfors (1984 and 1985) and Matias Boeker (2001 and 2002) to win consecutive NCAA singles championships since the current 64-player tournament format was adopted in 1977.