The School of Agriculture at Indira Gandhi National Open University in the Capital has launched a new six-month certificate programme in agricultural policy. Everything right from registration to certification of the course will be online. The programme will cover various aspects such as factors in agricultural development in India, farmers’ plight, issues of their intellectual property rights in cases of plant-breeding and research opportunities. Any student who has cleared Class XII can apply for the course. In an attempt to sensitise students and make them aware of traffic security and safety rules, a traffic awareness campaign was organised at Delhi University’s Zakir Husain College this week. The programme was conducted by the National Service Scheme wing of the college in collaboration with the Delhi Traffic Police and a voluntary organisation called Tracks Sports Society. Various activities were organised during the campaign, including a quiz competition on traffic rules, theme-based creative writing and slogan writing contest. The Career Guidance and Placement Committee of Indraprastha College for Women in Delhi conducted a career fair, “Future Quest-2009”, this past week. The event was sponsored by Jagran Institute of Communication and Management, Bhopal, and co-sponsored by the National Hospitality Institute. “The objective of the fair is to nurture innovative and creative abilities among the students of all disciplines and foster an enterprising spirit among them,” said Roopali Goyanka, convenor of the committee. The fair had some of the best educational institutes and organisations under one roof, like the British Council, University of Leeds, G. D. Goenka World Institute and O. P. Jindal Global University. Students from other colleges also visited the fair. The college also held its annual sports festival last week, where weightlifter Kunjarani Devi was invited as the chief guest. Students and teachers participated in various races. M. Athar Ansari, Reader in the Department of Community Medicine at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University, will be travelling to Thailand later this year to take part in an “Intensive Training Programme on HIV/AIDS and Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission” at Boromarajonani College and Bamrasnaradura Institute of Medical Sciences in that country. The programme will focus on various aspects of HIV/AIDS transmission including current scenario, epidemiology, diagnostic methods, investigations, counselling and prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections. Institute of Clinical Research India (ICRI) has introduced a new teaching methodology called the “Idea Interactive White Board System”. It is a small and lightweight handy device that can be attached to any surface to facilitate business meetings, presentations and class lessons. Through this methodology the students will be able to record handwritten notes and drawings on the computer. The new batch of students at ICRI will be exposed to this system of teaching. Parul Sharma