Physician and social activist G. Samaram playing ‘dandia’ to enthuse kids of Vasavya Mahila Mandali at a special carnival in Vijayawada on Sunday.    Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: The place resonated with giggles and guffaws, sniggers and sneers, as 250-odd children twittered away to glory in the warm ambience of the grand ball room of Hotel Fortune Murali Park on Sunday. Their naive chuckles spilled over to the festooned staircase that led the children into an enchanting world of entertainment. It was a carnival organised exclusively for a ‘vulnerable’ section of children hailing from HIV-infected and affected households. The revellers were beneficiaries of an education and knowledge-building programme being implemented by the city-based non-governmental organisation Vasavya Mahila Mandali (VMM) and jointly supported by the US-based Education Development Centre and Hong Kong-based Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation. Dancing in gay abandon to the blaring music that set the right mood, gulping down a variety of yummy dishes and carrying home bagful of delightful gifts was a rare treat for this set of children. Anchor Mahesh was in his elements, engaging the children in his inimitable style, while a string of contests in song, dance and other activities had the enthusiastic ones vying with one another to prove their mettle. The crowd was a mix of children drawn from nine coastal districts, mostly aged between 10 years and 15 years. “This treat is part of a five-day annual camp for children. We try to blend education and entertainment to enable the kids grasps new things in fun way,” said B. Keerthy, technical support manager of VMM. Besides the carnival, the children visited the driving school of the Lorry Owners’ Association at Bapulapadu for an enlightenment session on road rules and petrol bunks to witness demonstration of adulteration of kerosene, petrol and diesel. If the Rajiv Gandhi Park was an amusement destination, the trip to Gandhi Hill was enriching. “The whole exercise is aimed at child-to-child knowledge transfer in an effective way,” explained Ms. Keerthy. Places like Amaravathi, Mansarovar, Uppalapadu Bird Sanctuary and Undavalli caves are next on the list of the kids’ itinerary.