TRAINING: NCC cadets of Karunya University at an annual camp organised by 2 (TN) CTC, NCC.    Students of the MOP Vaishnav College for Women (Autonomous), Chennai, in association with CSI Bishop Appasamy College of Arts and Science organised Outlook 09 - Media Matters, a seminar on emerging trends in media. The seminar in Coimbatore was part of a series organised in nine cities across the country. The seminar in Coimbatore had resources persons like Lekha Rathnakumar, Managing Director of Lekha Advertising Agency, S. Rajasekar, novelist and public relations expert, G. Senthilkumar, Programme Head, Radio Mirchi, and V.S. Palaniappan, Principal Correspondent, The Hindu, who addressed the students on their respective media and the evolving trends. Students of RVS Institute of Management Studies and Research of RVS College of Arts and Science underwent a personality development programme. The programme aimed at building the employability competencies of the students with respect to effective communication to complement their academic excellence. Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Education in association with Indian Red Cross Society and Aravind Eye Hospital organised a free eye camp at Muthugoundanpudur Middle School. More than 300 people attended the camp. Some were referred for free surgery while others were given spectacles free of cost. Cygmax Institute of Management Studies organised a workshop on “Entrepreneurship Skills”. Mano Kumar, Consultant, National Entrepreneurship Network, urged youth to come forward to enter into business ventures. Rathinam College of Arts and Science in association with Lions Club of Coimbatore Industrial Estate conducted a blood donation camp on the college premises. Nearly 100 units of blood were collected and handed over to the blood bank at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The Department of Women’s Studies of Bharathiar University organised an awareness programme on “Entrepreneurial Opportunities in Agriculture” for the science students. H. Vijayaragavan, Head, Department of Crop Physiology, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, spoke to the students on various types of bio-fertilizers and how many inputs could be taken for entrepreneurial opportunity. Kathir College of Engineering organised a blood donation camp in the college campus. More than 100 students donated blood. Dr. G. Bakthavathsalam, Chairman, KG Hospitals, inaugurated the camp and motivated the students who were donating blood. A seminar on “Advance Trends of Bio-technology” was conducted at Dr. N.G.P. Arts and Science College. M.G. Sethuraman, Professor, Department of Chemistry, Gandhigram Rural University, listed out the use of bioscience in genetic engineering, gene encoding and use of vaccines in agriculture. The Department of Food Service Management and Dietetics of Avinashilingam University for Women organised a lecture on “Implications of Diabetes and Lifestyle Modification for Healthy Living”. Dr. T.R. Sivagnanam, Consultant Diabetologist of Kovai Medical Center and Hospital spoke on the topic. He urged women to follow a health diet and an active lifestyle. Coimbatore Institute of Engineering and Information Technology organised a faculty development programme. Microsoft trained more than 50 faculty members on C# and DOT NET. Park College of Engineering and Tekhnology celebrated the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. Representatives from the management and language experts spoke to the students on self confidence and hare work. The Fine Arts Club of Nehru Arts and Science College was inaugurated recently. The Department will organise interdepartmental competitions for the college students. Net Magnus Solution conducted a campus interview at Sankara College of Science and Commerce for final year MCA and MBA students. Students were short listed for final selection in the Chennai office of the company. The NSS units of PSG College of Nursing organised a special camp at Karunambiga Nagar and Thennampalayam. Various activities like yoga, craft, and personality development classes were conducted. Camps for dental, cervical cancer and overall check ups were held. General cleaning and tree planting also formed part of the activities. Students of Sri Krishna Arts and Science College organised a rice collection drive by which each student brought small quantities of rice everyday. The rice so collected was filled in many bags and given to inmates of the Cheshire Home. The Red Ribbon Club, NSS and the Department of Social Work of Sree Narayana Guru College observed World AIDS Day by conducting an awareness rally and taking a pledge. Students took a pledge to help at least one HIV-positive child. The rally passed through the villages of K.G. Chavadi, Rotigoundanur, Kaliapuram, Ettimadai and Chinnagoundanputhur. The Continuing Education Cell of VLB Janakiammal College of Engineering and Technology conducted a five-day faculty development programme on teaching methodology. Faculty got trained on evaluating students’ performance, motivation and interpersonal relationship, mind management skills, project-based learning, and reading, articulation and voice modulation. Experts from various disciplines engaged the sessions for the faculty. A 10-ten day combined annual training camp for NCC cadets of Karunya University was organised by 2(TN) Composite Technical Company, NCC. Nearly 700 cadets participated in the camp. They went through physical training, meditation, drills, games, weapon training, map reading and firing. The cadets also took part in cultural events. A soft skills programme was conducted for the second year B.E. and B. Tech and first year MBA students of Ranganathan Engineering College. Conversation skills, management games, puzzles, quiz, yoga, counselling, SWOT analysis, creative thinking and public speaking skills were taught to students. Guruvayurappan Institute of Management organised a seminar on “Women and Society – Emerging Trends and Challenges”. Students from international colleges participated and presented papers. Various cultural programmes depicting the traditional dance forms like kavadiattam, silambattam, jallikattu and uriadi were demonstrated. AMUTHA KANNAN