FINDING A NICHE McKay Savage    McKay Savage took time to adjust but now feels at home in Chennai McKay Savage has been in Chennai for the past two years and plans to stick around. Like many other foreigners here, Chennai was not really on his list, but now that he is here, he’s settling in. “I got an opportunity, hopped on a plane and ended up here,” says McKay. Passionate about development issues, he realised that his day job in Toronto (Canada) was not as satisfying as his volunteer efforts outside the workplace. McKay made the choice to make his non-profit work, dealing with HIV-AIDS and environmental issues, his primary focus. He gave up his business and engineering career and now works with Hand in Hand, a non-government organisation based in Tamil Nadu. His main job is to take international funders and participants around Tamil Nadu, showing them the various projects aimed at alleviating poverty and eradicating child labour, such as women’s micro-finance groups and economic development in rural areas. He sees himself as a bridge between the local staff and the international community. McKay enjoys meeting new people and taking foreigners around. He’s also an active member of couchsurfing — an online group that facilitates hosting strangers travelling in their city. “It’s nice to be able to show people the everyday life of India, here in Chennai. In other cities, they are too busy visiting tourist attractions; here they get to notice the flower sellers or drink tender coconut water,” says McKay. Having “staked out a space” for himself in Chennai, McKay now knows “how it works.” It took some time to adjust, but he now feels at home. “I’ve got myself a routine now and some excellent friends,” he says. McKay finds the expat community too transitory for his liking. Many end up leaving Chennai after about six months. Referring to a newspaper article he recently read that the influx of foreigners could change the feel of Chennai, he vehemently says, “Tamil culture is like a juggernaut, no one can even influence it, let alone change it.” It is this culture that keeps him here although he has a gripe about the limited social spaces in the city. “A lot of people complain about the lack of footpaths, but for me, what is missing in this city are places to simply linger, to wander about or sit in an outdoor restaurant.” He thinks Chennai is best described as “a sleepy town or an 8 million-people village.”