GUIDE FOR PARENTS Dr. Shobha Krishnan    Dr. Shobha S. Krishnan’s book on the HPV vaccine answers important questions about the disease Nine out of ten people will want to pick up a book that has the words ‘Sex’, ‘Cancer’, ‘God’, ‘Politics’ and ‘Controversy’ on its front wrapper. But these aren’t terms of enticement for this 230-page hardcover. Dr. Shobha S.Krishnan’s book is about the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine and the questions surrounding it. New York-based Dr. Shobha, Board-certified in Obstetrics-Gynecology and Primary Care simply had to write it. “Having been educated in Chennai and the U.S., I’ve had the best of both worlds,” she said recently in Chennai. “The vaccine has been in use for the last two-and-a-half years (now in India) and I have the research tools to assess the response. The controversy about the vaccine was a natural choice of subject.” The connection between the virus and Indian women’s health borders on the alarming. Nearly 75, 000 women die annually of HPV-gifted cervical cancer. Lack of education, inhibitions and our hesitation to go for regular Pap tests push us into the high risk area. Dr. Shobha’s book brings us those “simple, essential things” that we don’t know and will never ask. “The HPV virus is sexually (some forms non-sexually) transmitted,” she said. “We know the cause. It is preventable. Both men and women ought to be immunised.” Look at it this way. Here is a sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical cancer. A pharmaceutical company markets a vaccine that claims to prevent it in women. The vaccine has to be administered to girls as young as 12 (anti-bodies are high in this age group). It is expensive. The government may/may not make it compulsory. We have questions. Do we really need the vaccine? Aren’t Pap tests enough to prevent the cancer? Will the vaccine make girls promiscuous? Will abstinence prior to start of sexual activity and commitment to sex with one partner guarantee life-long protection? But how do I trust a vaccine promoted by a pharmaceutical company? Dr. Shobha answers these and other questions with facts and guidelines that might bring clarity to the parent’s dilemma. Aside of clinical data on who, when, how and what side effects, the book touches on religious beliefs, politics, and the emotional impact of the HPV diagnosis. Gratifyingly, Dr. Shobha addresses the why-not-a-male-vaccine question as well. “The vaccine does not prevent pregnancy or HIV, so how will it promote promiscuity?” she asked. “It is like having an airbag or automatic brakes in the car. It is a tool to protect you.” The book, she said, is to know what best we can do as parents. Clearly it is for a U.S. audience. The legislative information and medical statistics are U.S. focused. But a discussion on this vaccine is meant for all mothers of young daughters. If parents and paediatricians make a medical choice, shouldn’t they be sure it is an informed one? Dr. Shobha’s reader-friendly book, with its wide index, could be the first important step towards it. “The idea is to expose the reader to everything about the vaccine,” she said.