Khundrakpam Pradeep Kumar Singh    Mini Muringatheri Thrissur: A week after veteran Manipuri filmmaker Aribam Shyam Sharma left Thrissur after attending a film festival, Khundrakpam Pradeep Kumar Singh, the lead actor in his documentary, Mr. Manipur, is here to attend the Mr. India Senior Inter-State Body Building competition. “I dedicate Mr. Manipur, which documents the struggles of an HIV-positive person to become a body builder, to the hundreds of hapless youth of my State who have fallen prey to AIDS,” Mr. Sharma told The Hindu last week. After qualifying in the first round of the competition in the 55 kg. category on Saturday, Mr. Singh said: “I am here to prove there is life after AIDS.” “Everyone believes that if you are infected with HIV, you will die immediately. This is wrong. I tested HIV-positive 18 years ago. Did you count the number of ‘so-called healthy’ people I defeated in the competition? With proper medication and healthy food, those who carry the HIV virus can lead fairly normal lives,” he said. He said drug abuse was wreaking havoc on the lives of Manipur’s youth. “Proximity to the Golden Triangle, one of Asia’s main illicit opium-producing areas, has got many Manipuri youngsters hooked on to drugs. Intravenous drug abuse is very common among youngsters in the North-East. I am a victim.” Taking to drugs at an early age of 14, Mr Singh and his friends shared needles for their drug shots. By 1992, when he quit drugs, he was infected with HIV. “Life came to a standstill. I was confined to my bed. My friends and relatives disowned me. Most of my friends who shared needles with me succumbed to the disease.” The pain instilled in him a fighting spirit. “I took it as a challenge. I wanted to get back to life. I began to work out at a nearby gym. I worked hard. My cousin, a martial arts practitioner, encouraged me to participate in the Mr. Manipur contest,” he recalled. Mr. Singh was the runner-up in the contest in 2006, and went on to win the title in 2007. In 2008, he reached the sixth place in the Mr. India competition held in Meerut and the fourth in Senior Mr. India competition held in Aurangabad. He is a source of inspiration for thousands of HIV-positive people all over the world. Manipur AIDS Control Society made him its brand ambassador. “I use every platform available to create awareness about AIDS. I regularly take part in anti-AIDS programmes,” he said. His message to those living with HIV is: ‘Never lose hope.’