Significant: Collector T. Soundiah receiving a petition from transgenders at a special grievance redressal camp in Tiruchi on Thursday.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent TIRUCHI: A group of about 58 transgenders would soon get a shelter of their own at the house sites allotted for them at Kozhukattaikudi near Manikandam on the outskirts of the city. This was one of the significant decisions arrived at during a grievance day camp organised exclusively for transgenders, disabled and people living with HIV/ AIDS in the City on Thursday. Collector T. Soundiah chaired the camp and issued directions on 525 petitions received from 70 disabled persons, 396 HIV positive persons and 59 transgenders. “This is the first such camp organised in the district and we have planned to hold once such camp every three months,” Mr. Soundiah said. Based on a representation from members of the All India Aravanigal Rights and Rehabilitation Centre, led by its managing trustee P. Mohana, Mr. Soundiah said steps would be taken to build houses for 58 transgenders, who had been allotted pattas, through the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. The association has been running from pillar to post to get free houses built on the sites allotted in 2006, said Ms. Mohana, explaining the difficulties faced by transgenders in renting out houses. The association also sought pension for its ageing members, identity cards and financial assistance. Transgenders have been so far excluded from the self-help movement and many of them living with HIV were suffering in penury. A survey should be conducted to identify such poor transgenders so that they could be covered under the social security and welfare schemes, it suggested. Several people living with HIV/AIDS and the disabled sought pension and monthly assistance. The concerned departments have been asked to process their applications within two months and issue necessary orders in all eligible cases. A short-list of eligible persons would be prepared for financial support from the Collector’s Discretionary Funds, Mr. Soundiah said. The Special Deputy Collector (Social Security) D. Mahalakshmi, District Disabled Rehabilitation Officer R. Shyamala, District Social Welfare Officer C. Lakshmi, District Supplies Officer S. Rajasekaran and the district Project Coordinator of the TN AIDS Control Society R. Shanmugasundaram and other officials attended the camp.