Green measure: Students of Nehru Arts and Science College distributing saplings to villagers.    The Eco Club of Nehru Arts and Science College distributed saplings as part of a campaign to spread eco awareness in the village of Thirumalayampalayam. More than 100 saplings of mango, gooseberry, and red sandal were distributed. The School of Computer Science and Engineering recently organised an international seminar on computational intelligence. Narasimhan Sundararajan, Professor, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, inaugurated the seminar. The aim of the seminar was to impart knowledge in research topics. More than 250 participants attended the programme. A yoga and meditation centre for students was opened at the K.S.G College of Arts and Science. Following a directive from G.Thiruvasagam, Vice Chancellor of Bharathiar University, the management of the college has incorporated yoga into the curriculum of undergraduate courses. D.J.Academy for Managerial Excellence organised a workshop on “advanced networking using network simulator.” More than 30 faculty members who were pursuing research in advanced networking from various colleges in and around Tamil Nadu were selected to attend the one-day workshop. Indira Gandhi College of Special Education celebrated World Disability Day. Students organised entertainment programmes and spoke about the importance of creating awareness on disability related issues. Suresh Kumar Thakur, Deputy Director Naval Research Board, gave a special lecture on “project proposal preparation under several of DRDO” at the Avinashilingam University. He said that the Department of Defence Research and Development was working closely with academic institutions, research and development centres and agencies of Science and Technology Ministries. A seminar on “issues related to business in the world of computers” was organised at the Lakshminarayanan Visalakshi College of Arts and Science for Women. More than 30 students presented papers. Sankara College of Science and Commerce, Chennai, conducted an on-campus interview for final year MCA students. More than 40 students took part. Eight students were selected to attend the last two rounds at Chennai. A Tamil Club was formed at Kathir College of Engineering recently. C.Rajendran, Commissioner, Customs and Central Excise, inaugurated the club. He advised students to read the Thirukkural daily. Students also entertained the audience with a Bharatanatyam performance. The Mechanical Engineering Department of Anna University, Jothipuram campus, inaugurated the students’ association. Vice Chancellor, R.Radhakrishnan, said that practical learning would be given importance. P.Balasubramanian, Head and Senior Director, National Informatics Centre, Chennai, signed a memorandum of understanding with the university. The Department of Biotechnology, Sri Krishna Arts and Science College conducted an environment awareness rally from Gandhipuram to Red Cross building. Principal, Maleega Begum, took part. S. Udayamarthandan, professor and head, Department of Textile Processing, SSM Institute of Textile Technology and Polytechnic College, Komarapalayam, has done the institution proud by securing three patents. A release from the Institute says he secured patents for membrane-less treatment of sea water, low-cost quick textile processing and low-cost power generation without affecting environment. In recognition of his patents, the Indian Institute of Management in Ahmedabad invited Mr. Udayamarthandan as a special invitee to the conference of 70 innovators. The release adds that the faculty’s research will help in treatment of sea water of low cost and benefit textile industry. It further says that the Ministry of Power, in recognition of the low-cost power generation project, has invited him to New Delhi to make a presentation. Gobi Arts and Science College, Gobichettipalayam, recently celebrated National Consumers Day, says a release from the institution. In the programme organised on the occasion, S. Viswanathan, president, Consumer Protection Council, Kavindapady, participated and spoke on consumer rights. College principal R. Sellappan urged the students to pass the awareness to members of the public, the release says and adds that president of Consumer Protection Council, Kadukkampalayam, S.A. Perumal also spoke on the occasion. As part of the event, the release says, the College management had also organised a oratorical competition on ‘Consumer Rights and Awareness’. M. Saranya of B.Sc (IT) and C. Sridar of B.Sc (Physics) won the first and second places respectively. In the essay writing competition on ’Human Rights: Violations and Prevention’, M. Saranya of B.Sc (IT) and P. Vidya of B.Sc (PB and BT) won the first two places. Club Secretary C. Thirumoorthi welcomed the gathering and Joint Secretary C. Somasundaram proposed the vote of thanks. Nandha Polytechnic College, Erode, recently conducted special NSS camp in Ingur panchayat, says a release from the institution. K. Thangavelu of Agni Steels, who was the special guest, spoke about how participation in such camps moulded students. Chief Education Officer of Nandha group of institutions S. Arumugam told the students about the commitment to community the American and Indian people had and the difference therein. Polytechnic College principal M. Rafi Ahamed welcomed the gathering. Ingur panchayat president E.V.M. Natarajamoorthy, Secretary of Nandha group of institutions S. Thirumoorthy and others participated in the programme. Shree Venkateshwara Hi-tech Engineering College, Gobichettipalayam, recently conducted a faculty development programme, in which S. Selvam, deputy director, Centre for University-Industry Collaboration, Anna University, Chennai, participated as the resource person. A release from the college says Dr. Selvam shares his thoughts on teaching and use of modern technology in the teaching-learning process. He suggested that the teachers should be facilitators and not teachers. He also addressed the first year students on ’Core Competency Development’, the release says and adds that he highlighted the importance of communication skills. Professor P. Thangavel welcomed the gathering. Secretary K.C. Karuppanan, Chairman P. Venkatachalam, and Joint Secretary G.P. Kettimuthu also participated. NSS unit of Kongu Arts and Science College, Erode, conducted a special camp at Nanjanapuram, near Erode, says a release from the institution. In the camp that was inaugurated by the Additional Superintendent of Police N. Rathinam, the NSS volunteers cleaned school campuses, white washed walls and planted trees.They also conducted awareness programme for villagers on AIDS, consumer rights, total sanitation, etc.