Doodle genius Right, Suresh Eriyat. Above, some of the prestigious ad-campaigns by Eriyat   | Photo Credit:  City guy E.Suresh is in the big league in the animation world. K.Pradeep learns that he is one of the two Indians on the jury of the prestigious Clio Awards Even before the first ball was bowled at the inaugural Indian Premier League, even before the teams with their romantic names geared for battle, the pitch was prepared. Expectations rose to feverish pitch through a power-packed, colourful, campaign on television. Cricketers in their team colours, like gladiators, swished and swayed in what was conceived a royal battle, ‘Karmayudh’. This ad campaign that was a perfect curtain-raiser to the pulsating games was the creation of the Mumbai-based Famous House of Animation (FHOA), one of the premier animation studios in the country. They were also behind the first-ever animated music video and were the first to launch clay animation commercials in the country. The creative force behind all these creative endeavours and more is the Kochi-born E. Suresh, 35, founder and creative director. The legendary Famous Cine Labs & Studios, founded in 1946, got into animation in 1998. They hired the expertise of Suresh, a fresh graduate from National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, to produce a television series based on the popular Amar Chitra Katha comic book. “That project did not go beyond the initial stage. But we made a start, formed a fine team. Those days we had only one room to operate out of and we did whatever work came our way. Over the years we have grown into a creative film making company rather than a mere animation service provider,” says Suresh, who joined NID soon after his schooling at Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Tripunithura. Today FHOA is a known name globally and Suresh is the heart and soul of it along with partner Famous Studios Ltd. Suresh heads a team that creates animation films in 2D, 3D, clay, stop motion, winning awards, gaining recognition in every forum and festivals across the globe. He has a portfolio that covers genres ranging from television commercials, to short films, music videos and most recently long format animation. He was the head of the animation team for the production of the international award-winning film ‘The Freedom Song,’ directed ‘The Legend of Shivaji,’ a 22-minute animated film, directed the Slim vs. Slim for Levis that won numerous international awards and was strong contender for the Grand Prix at Cannes in 2006 and FHOA is the only company from India selected by Unicef to work on spots for Pandemic awareness. “We have a couple of interesting projects lined up. Most of the content we are developing is targeted at the global market. There’s a 12-minute film with Johnny Bravo as the main character, which will be broadcast worldwide on Cartoon Network. Neki & Pooch Pooch, a 3D animated series and Jungle Rules, a 3D animated show, both for children and adults. The pilot episodes have been received well, we are working to flesh out the scripts.” A dream project for which work is on is a full-length animated feature film. Set in 15th Century India, it is loosely based on history and mythology of the time. “We have called it ‘Broken Sword’ for the time being. It is a kalaripayat-based action film in mixed media. The trailer was screened at the Hiroshima film festival and the response was very encouraging. In these days of recession the going is a bit slow, but we will be ready with this work this year.” Animation is generally considered to be something created for children, wrongly associated with cartoons and laughter. “Films not targeted at children unfortunately may not see the light of the day in our country. We had a couple of successful films based on mythological characters. The trend today is to make something on the same lines. Despite lack of a niche audience for arty, serious animation, the scenario is still encouraging.” Along with all this work Suresh and his team keep working on television commercials, public service messages and channel packaging. ‘Bust That Noma,’ a film that helps prepare children afflicted with cancer to go in for treatment is one such film. “Another public service film on female infanticide was nominated for the final at the Cannes Lion in 2003. We did a lot of research and study for a BBC Worldwide film on HIV/AIDS. For these films communication has to be clear and loud, even blatant, in order to be effective.” Design involves an elaborate conceptualisation phase when a creative director and his team needs to develop the characters, understand the target audience, putting the theme, concept and characters in its proper backdrop in such a way that it communicates effectively with the audience. “Simple talent in drawing or painting need not be a prerequisite for a creative director, especially in the field of animation film making. There is need to understand the concept, the product and try to create something that is new. Personally, everything, right from the early sketching, the mythological stories I heard in my childhood, the music I listened to, the colourful temple festivals, my upbringing, all these and many more such images have helped in moulding my career.” On the jury of the prestigious Clio Awards for the last two years, one of the two Indians on the panel, Suresh feels that there is a limited pool of genuinely talented people in this field and there is an urgent need for it to grow. “There is need for more youngsters to come into animation. But we do not have good training institutes in the first place and then the youngsters must also decide whether it must be a shallow dive or sink deeply when they make the choice.” A trained Carnatic vocalist; most of Suresh’s free time is spent listening to music. No wonder that his films have strong music content in them. Wife Nilima, an illustrator/animator from the Delhi College of Art, who is into children’s picture books and six-year-old daughter Ananya make up the family. “Ananya is into heavy duty drawing these days. All the walls in my office and home are hers,” Suresh says with that warm smile.