HEALTHCARE: A. Panchanathan, Joint Director of Health Services, flagging off the rally in the city on Tuesday.    : A cycle relay rally with 50 participants, including members of Red Ribbon Club and NSS, transgenders and differently-abled persons began here on Tuesday to create an awareness of the trust formed for children infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. They will go through the district covering 76 kilometres before reaching Theni district. Kalavasal, Nagamalai Pudukottai, Chellampatti, Chekkanoorani, Usilampatti and Andipatti were among the halting points. A. Panchanathan, Joint Director of Health Services, and E.S. Thangha Pandian, District Programme Manager, District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit, participated and flagged off the rally which began at the Youth Hostel in the city. The Tamil Nadu Trust for Children Affected by HIV/AIDS was set up in 2009 under the aegis of Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society and had been allotted Rs.5 crore by the State Government. “This will serve as a corpus for the trust and efforts are also being made to mobilise funds from corporate sector and various organisations,” Dr. Thangha Pandian said in a press release. The objective is to reach out to the children who are vulnerable and provide them with necessary protection and care. Presently, the trust is meeting the educational/nutritional and other special needs of 1,595 children in the State. It sanctioned Rs.3.37 lakh to support the educational needs of 110 children from Madurai district. Children studying in classes I to V were receiving Rs.2,000 while those from 6 {+t} {+h} to 9 {+t} {+h} classes were receiving Rs.3,000. For the students from 10 {+t} {+h} class and above up to college are getting Rs.5,000. The relay rally which started from Nagercoil is passing through various districts and would reach Chennai on the World AIDS Day (December 1). Dr. Thangha Pandian said that the Madurai district administration is keen on ensuring that prevention, treatment and care services reached the needy. In Madurai district, 3,654 people living with HIV are receiving free Anti-Retroviral Therapy through the ART Centre situated in the Government Rajaji Hospital here. The press release said that various activities are being organised across the State in the run up to the World AIDS Day, including an auction of paintings done by HIV-infected and affected in Chennai. Staff of TANSACS have donated a day's salary to the trust. Details about the support available for HIV infected and affected persons through the trust can be had from Dr. Thangha Pandian on mobile number: 80125-02345.