“Work, but don't get worked up. Get up and walk your way to a healthy heart.” This is the zero-cost initiative recommended by cardiologists on the occasion of World Heart Day on Sunday. The theme for this year's World Heart Day is “Workplace Wellness: Take Responsibility for Your Own Heart Health.” To achieve this, cardiologists say employers should make sure that the workplace is stress-free. “The working atmosphere definitely has a bearing on the worker's heart. Workplace wellness basically boils down to stress management as stress can cause high blood pressure, heart attacks and even cancers,” C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, told   on Friday. To promote the workplace as an ideal setting to adopt healthy behaviour that will prevent heart disease and stroke, the World Heart Federation, along with the World Health Organisation (WHO), is propagating the catchy slogan — “I work with a heart”. Around half of the 1,000 patients who visit Jayadeva Institute every day with complaints of heart problems belong to the working group. “On a day-to-day basis, around 50 patients have problems because of stress in their workplaces,” said Dr. Manjunath. “A memo from the employer is enough to raise the stress levels in a person,” he said. “The heads of institutions should maintain cordial relations with their colleagues,” Dr. Manjunath said. He said: “Recently, a junior engineer in a government department came to me after he developed chest pain [after harassment] at work. He suffered a heart attack within a week.” I.B. Vijaylakshmi, professor of Paediatric Cardiology, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, said it was not just employers who had to be motivated. “Everyone can play a role in improving health at the workplace. Employees need not get worked up over small things,” she said. Advising people to follow a proper diet, Dr. Vijaylakshmi said: “Unhealthy diet, physical inactivity and tobacco are the main reasons [for cardiac problems].” Quoting a World Heart Federation survey, she said: “Deaths due to heart attack worldwide are equal to the number of deaths caused by cancer, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and sevral other diseases. But the good news is that heart disease is definitely preventable.” A diet of vegetables and fruits, regular exercise and shunning use of tobacco in all forms will age the heart more slowly and reduce the risk of heart disease. Mohammed Rehan Sayeed, cardiothoracic surgeon, Fortis Hospitals, said the concept of workplace wellness was gaining momentum in most Information Technology companies now. “Several offer their employees play areas and gym at the workplace to keep them fit. There is ample scientific evidence to show that short breaks increase productivity,” he said.