Volunteers from Centre for Social Development and Social Work Research conducting HIV/AIDS awareness programme for migrant construction workers in Coimbatore. (Right) Condoms distributed to construction workers in Coimbatore as part of a Targeted Intervention project supported by TANSACS. — Photo: K. Ananthan    Any HIV/AIDS awareness programme will not be a success if it neglects the migrant population in a globalised economy. This is especially true of Coimbatore district where a significant portion of its workforce is migrants. A rapidly expanding industrial base _ and the consequent boom in jobs _ has attracted workers from far and wide to Coimbatore. Thus, the spotlight ought to be on these workers. In the textile mills, about 50 per cent of workers are migrants. In engineering units, 40 to 50 per cent are from other districts and even other States. In the booming construction sector, migrant workers are employed in mega projects. Though there is no data, approximately 25 to 35 per cent of them are from outside. “The main focus in the district now is migrant workers. We have to do much for them. Most of these workers are young. The risk of HIV/AIDS is higher if they are young (15 and 45 of age) and unmarried,” says Mohammed Ali, Programme Manager of District AIDS Prevention Control Unit. For the first time in the district, red ribbon clubs will be started at 30 industries on December 1. Each unit will receive Rs. 4,400 initially to create awareness and train peer leaders for awareness. “We do workplace intervention for prevention. If workers test positive, they are given counselling and treatment.” Awareness is important for prevention, he says. In an effort to assess the prevalence of HIV/AIDS among the migrant labour in Coimbatore, the Centre for Social Development and Social Work Research will embark on a survey on this section. P. Ashok Kumar, Programme Manager, Targeted Intervention – Migrants Project, said that migrant workers at construction sites, factories, spinning mills and other industries would be tested for a HIV Sentinel Surveillance. Trained persons would visit the workers at their place, test a sample of five and send the report to the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University or the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Mr. Kumar said this was the first time a survey would be done. A maximum of 250 people would be tested across the district, starting January 2011. The Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society had trained laboratory technicians for the purpose. The Centre had identified 132 sites where migrant workers could be tested. However, samples would be lifted from only 50 centres. The target was single male between 15 and 45 years. Mr. Kumar said in the Centre's assessment, migrant workers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are in workplaces in and around Coimbatore in groups ranging from 15 to 200. The Centre is also engaged in creating awareness on HIV/AIDS among the workers in their mother tongue. “We have got multi-lingual volunteers.” It also distributes pamphlets sourced from various State AIDS control societies. A.S. Sankaranarayanan, Managing Trustee of Native Medicare Charitable Trust, said it organised industrial intervention programme from 2002-2008 in the district, covering one lakh workers in 72 industries. Apart from awareness programmes for workers, orientation sessions were organised for employees and for union leaders. Industries voluntarily ask for HIV/AIDS awareness programmes and the Trust had covered about 30 units in Tirupur and Coimbatore districts, based on their request. Some units even installed condom vending machines on the premises. Mr. Shankaranarayanan said that awareness was improving among workers. However, continuous education was a must. The Trust developed an industrial policy that said workers with AIDS should not be discriminated against or should not be sent out of work. As many as 11 industries had signed the agreement. According to M. Arumugam, general secretary of the Coimbatore District Mill Workers' Union affiliated to the AITUC, all workers in a factory should have basic amenities and access to healthcare. The managements should organise awareness programmes on health-related issues regularly.