labour of love: Mayor A. Veeraraghavamma and Additional Commissioner N.V. Sivaji at the Stamps Exhibition in Rajahmundry on Sunday.   | Photo Credit:  BVS Bhaskar Rajahmundry: Fragrance coming from postal stamps is a rare phenomenon. Making a stamp with Comet Dust costing Rs.23, 275 is also a wonder. Stamp that replicates Compact Disk and Original Foot Ball stamp in small size were astonishing. All these collections were found at an exhibition by a doctor Murthy, Municipal Health Officer in Rajahmundry on Sunday. He has organised an astounding stamp collection in the Municipal office premises on the occasion of Municipal Council third anniversary, which enthralled all walks of life. Stamps made with cork, plastic and flakes painting are other collections. Most of the girls and women were fascinated to see embroidery stamps, children interested to see stamp made with football material and 61 Indian National Leaders on one stamp released in 1985. Stamps collected from 11th A.D. with Gold Coins and latest one also found a place in the exhibition. The intent behind the exhibition was to encourage the hobby of stamp collection as the children today are much occupied with various curricular activities. Dr. Murthy's thorough knowledge of stamps could be witnessed through this exhibition. It gives a platform to various stamp collectors to upgrade their awareness on stamps. There was a huge variety of stamps of various countries. The Municipal Corporation area was flooding with children, teenagers and adults to get a glimpse of various stamps. Stamps on Dasavatharam, Jayadeva Astapadi, Medical Colleges, Hospitals, Surgeries, Red Cross Organisations and others on messages and diseases. Breast feeding is best feeding, Eye care, Stop AIDS, Malaria Eradication, Tuberculosis, Cancer-1967 and No to Drugs According to Dr. Murthy, the stamp collection is a famous hobby, which estimates the collectors up to 20 million in the US alone. The creation of a large stamp collection however requires some philatelic knowledge. The first postage stamp was “The Penny Black” issued by Britain which features young queen Victoria. He further explained that the early stamp collectors were children and teenagers till the early 1870. He quoted some of the popular stamp collectors including Tennis Star Maria Sharapova was also a stamp collector. U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt was an avid stamp collector who designed several American commemorative stamps .