“The Golden Secret”: A painting by artist Blanca Dixit-Peralta from her current show.    Madhur Tankha NEW DELHI: Delhi-based Indo-Spanish artist Blanca Dixit-Peralta's new body of works displayed as a solo exhibition at Alliance Francaise de Delhi here showcases the rich art and culture of Japan. “Soul Migrations II: Moments in Zen” depicting paintings, sketches and graphics was inaugurated on Monday. The artist has displayed her large-heartedness by offering a part of the proceeds from her three-day exhibition to Delhi's Naz Foundation for child victims of AIDS and the India Vision Foundation for the under-served children of prison inmates. Interestingly, Blanca's fascination with Japanese aesthetics blossomed as a little girl. She was regaled by stories narrated to her family who has been living in the island country for many years. In the new series, the paintings depict the classic poetic and Zen aesthetic elements of Japan -- its haiku and geishas, the tea ceremony and samurai, individual monks and cherry trees. However, as her voyage was taken recently and Japan has ever proved itself to be a refiner of adopted elements, some of the works recount the contemporary blending of the hip and jive to the crossing of thoroughfare, to the bar and music clubs of jazz and rock (the Metro Club in Tokyo), as well as the Sado Island Kodo drummers. Speaking about her two-month stay in Japan, Blanca says everywhere she found expression of a profound sense of exacting precision, meticulousness, compassion, dedication and fine detail in each human undertaking. “As Indians are going global, it is important for them to understand the unique culture of Japan. During my stay in the island country, I saw how culture co-exists with innovative technology. It was fascinating to realise that Japanese culture shares some similarities with Indian culture,” adds Blanca, who has depicted demure kimonoed girls and austere monks. Describing her portrayal of Japan, American journalist David Kubiak says half of Blanca's drawings presenting emblematic statuary have moved beyond depiction. “The works have absorbed enough folk respect to possess a life force of their own. Her other monochrome work portrays figures from highly stylised traditions -- the Noh play, the Buddhist path, youth fashion fads and the exquisite geisha world.”