STEPS TO FREEDOM Marble steps offer a few private moments    SHIVANI YADAV THE HANGOUT: Marble steps leading to the reception RUSH HOUR: 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. What's to love: The bol of tabla and the aalaps of classical music welcome you as you step into this institution of performing arts that has been imparting knowledge in different schools of classical music and dance over the years. Established in 1952, the institute is one of the oldest of its kind in the city and attracts aspirants from all over the world. Shares Carolina, a student of Odissi dance, “Most of us here dedicate ourselves fully to music and dance. So, whenever time permits we get together with friends and find an empty classroom to practice. It is fun and takes the pressure off learning.” Before the classes most of the students can be seen waiting for their friends on the marble steps leading to the reception. “We catch up with each other on the marble steps or the front porch as it is airy and unlike inside, we need not speak in hushed voices,” says Kavya Raveendran, a Bharatnatyam student. Pankhudi and Arushi, both 10 years old and probably the youngest students of Kathak dance reveal, “After the classes we sneak into the side lawns and play hide-and-seek or chase, of course only until we are caught!” Those who stay in the hostel within the campus can sit undisturbed anywhere in the back lawns and chat. The auditorium comes alive when there is a musical show, otherwise the students are found in the library. What's not to be: “As the marble stairs are right at the front and there are always people going up and down, often we huddle on the staircase to the second floor for privacy,” says Chandni, a Bharatanatyam student. Also, unlike most institutes the canteen is relatively empty here. Though it has been shifted recently and is modern in construction than the rest of the building, it is less preferred by the students. “The canteen is spacious and comfortable but it is always deserted. Probably we are yet to connect with it,” says a student. Alternatives: When the classes and practice tire them out, the tea vendor outside the gate becomes a busy man. “Before going home we always relish a few moments of chatting cozily over a quick cup of tea,” says Kavya. Those rare times when they wish to steal a few moments away from the hustle-bustle of classes, stairs at the back of the building offer refuge.