The Department of Ayush (Indian Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy) in the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the State Government, along with NGO Vijnana Bharati, are organising a five-day 4th World Ayurveda Congress and Arogya Expo at Palace Grounds from December 9. Speaking to reporters, the Ayush Director G.N. Srikantaiah and Sumantha Chatterji, Under Secretary in the Union Department of Ayush, said that 4,000 delegates, including foreigners, would attend the Congress. Mr. Srikantaiah said that 1,270 research and review papers would be presented in six plenary and 25 technical sessions and 176 speakers would deliver their key note addresses. More than five lakh people are expected to visit the Congress and the Aryogya Expo events. The events would take place at six venues in the city. Ranjit Puranik, representing the industry, said that 200 companies would exhibit their products and 233 stalls would be set up for the purpose. The expo will provide business opportunities for manufacturers, suppliers of medicines and service providers, extensive B2B and B2C opportunities, and pavilions on the subject ‘Ayurveda for all', AIDS and vector-borne disease control, exhibits on food and nutritional sciences, free health check-ups, lectures and counselling. There would also be Prakriti and nadi pariksha demonstration of home remedies and yoga demonstrations. A workshop on afforestation of medicinal trees and rare endangered and threatened plants would be held on December 11 and 12. Mr. Srikantaiah said that the Forest Department had identified 13 places, including Agumbe, Talacauvery, Kukke Subramanya, Kollur, Sandur, Biligiri Rangana Betta and Kemmanna Gundi in the State for growing medicinal and other plants that were facing extinction. He said more than 300 species of medicinal plants are endangered/on the verge of extinction in the country and 120 rare species were in Karnataka. Already, 20 had become extinct in the country. He said some five lakh traditional vaidyas (native doctors), including 25,000 in the State and four lakh registered ayurvedic medical practitioners were working across the country. Vijnana Bharati organising secretary Gita Krishnan said that out of the expenditure of Rs. 4 crore, the State Government, which was hosting the events, had promised Rs. 2 crore, and the rest would be met by the Government of India and some organisations.