Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Prisons), Chennai, R. Duraisamy distributed certificates to 36 inmates of the Central Prison (for men), Vellore, who completed various courses, at a function got up on the prison premises on Wednesday. The recipients include 17 persons, who completed certificate in managerial skills course conducted by Auxilium College, Vellore; four persons who completed the certificate in electrical course conducted by St. Joseph's Institute, Katpadi; seven persons who completed the Standard VIII; and four persons who completed Standard X through the School Education Department of the Tamil Nadu government; one inmate who completed B.A. history through the Institute of Distance Education of the Madras University; and three persons who completed B.C.A. course through the Indira Gandhi National Open University. Mr. Duraisamy also inaugurated a renovated computer lab established at the prison through Auxilium College, with the support of the Integrated Village Development Project (IVDP), Krishnagiri, which had donated seven computers. M.R. Ahmed, director, Academy for Prison and Correctional Administration (APCA), inaugurated a character development programme to be conducted for prison inmates by Emmanuel Angelo, Managing Director of Sanctuary Trust, Vellore. Prizes were distributed to inmates who won essay and painting competitions conducted on Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) awareness. Good conduct cards were given to inmates, who behaved well by following jail rules and taking part in physical exercise and educational activities, to enable them obtain concessions such as remission of sentence, family interviews during Sundays and permission to provide assistance to their family members for their educational development. Students of Auxilium College conducted cultural programmes in connection with Christmas celebrations. Don Bosco Kural Amudham, a music troupe comprising inmates trained in music by Martin Raj of St. John Music Academy, gave a music programme. The Rotary Club of Vellore organised an ENT medical camp for the inmates. Kulandei Francis, president, IVDP, Krishnagiri, Eugini Fathima, Principal, Auxilium College, J.R. Beulah Bharathi, head, Department of Business Administration, Auxilium College, R. Arivudhai Nambi, Superintendent, Central Prison, Vellore, Rajalakshmi, Superintendent, Special Prison for Women, Vellore, John Louis, Vellore Unit Coordinator, Prison Ministry of India, Vellore, Gunasekaran of the Prison Ministry of India, Vellore, D. Thirumaran, president, Rotary Club of Vellore, and Mariappa, Jailor of the Central Prison, Vellore, participated in the function.