TAKE CARE Adequate nutrition and clean environment help keep pneumonia at bay PHOTO: AFP    I s your kid under five years? Does he have a runny nose and a cough? Does he feel warm, have difficulty breathing and push his milk/plate of pasta away? The sensible thing to do, says Dr. P. Ramachandran, Institute of Child Health, is to take the child to the nearest paediatrician for a check-up. “Persistent cough and cold, rapid breathing and not taking feed may be indications of a baby version of streptococcus pneumonia. There is a possibility of earache that could also be bacterial infection needing peripheral treatment.” A baby who refuses its feed is a baby in physical distress that needs “Now!” attention. “Diarrhoea was the biggest killer, but after ORT and awareness, has been replaced by childhood pneumonia,” said Dr. Ramachandran. “The incidence of the latter is not coming down.” A World Health Organisation (WHO) report singles out pneumonia — more than AIDS, malaria and measles combined — as a major cause of infant illness. Cigarette and cooking smoke, poor nutrition, lack of medical access, fear of going to the doctor and not realising the seriousness are reasons. “If it's under-treatment in smaller towns, it's over treatment in the cities,” the paediatrician said. For lovers of statistics, here are some facts: Reducing infant deaths is one of our Millennium Development Goals. The deadline for that is 2015. Controlling childhood pneumonia is a key to meeting this goal. And we're kind of behind target there. Some two million kids under age 5 die of various diseases each year and pneumonia kills roughly 1,90,000 children or 10 per cent of this number. We don't smoke or use firewood for cooking. Our food cannot be faulted on nutrition; we consider ourselves healthy and live in the city. Why would our child get sick? Ah, you're forgetting that dark spectre of environment pollution. Unless you raise him/her in an antiseptic bubble, the kid is exposed to some of the deadliest toxins that our vehicles, garbage dumps and construction dust throw up. Since there's a combination of causes, a good prevention plan should be multi-pronged, say doctors. Breast-feed for immunity, vaccinate against diphtheria and whooping cough, keep nutrition balanced when the baby grows up and keep the environment clean — inside and outside. “At our hospital, we educate doctors on WHO guidelines on the level of treatment,” said Dr. Ramachandran. “Medication is at the peripheral level if breathing rate is normal. If the baby is restless, the level would be different. There are clear-cut guidelines.” In severe cases, the baby is admitted, given oxygen and antibiotics. “In mild cases, it is a commonly used prescription, not at all expensive.” Parents are told what they can do at home, like giving the baby warm fluids and keeping him warm, before jumping to medication. Parents learn what to do at the community level, when they should return for a check-up. Some experts recommend the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) to make babies under 24 months safe from pneumococcal attack and protect children up to nine years. The WHO has cleared the inclusion of PCV in the national immunisation programmes, they say. But what “has to be done” is obvious. The “kids-affected” numbers will go down and stay there when there's focussed spending on health and family welfare, nutrition-and-hygiene education, better road and electricity access, expansion of female schooling. “It is a common problem but it needs attention because over the years the incidence has not come down much,” said Dr. Ramachandran. “It may be because people cannot access timely treatment. According to the WHO, only half of children with pneumonia are taken to an appropriate healthcare provider (Pneumonia: The Forgotten Killer of Children, UNICEF/WHO). “We need a better approach to infection management, nutrition and standard vaccination. Pneumonia among kids can be controlled.”