Talent test: Students of Crescent College of Education for Women at an event conducted during the Fine Arts Week.    A workshop on ‘Career Guidance' was organised by the Career Guidance Bureau of Vivekananda College, Tiruvedagam West, along with the inauguration of Naren IAS Academy. Swami Paramananda, secretary, Vivekananda College, inaugurated the workshop. Naren IAS Academy was opened by S. Ramanathan, former IFS officer. C. Lakshmanan, Coordinator, Career Guidance Bureau, welcomed the gathering. R. Vanniarajan, Principal, in his presidential address, stressed the need for development of soft skills among graduates. Mr. Ramanathan, in his inaugural address, highlighted the various opportunities in Civil Services. R. Srinivasan, Professor, College of Gandhian Thought, delivered a talk on ‘Goal setting and higher studies.' V. Nehru, former Coordinator, SPARK Centre for IAS Studies, spoke on ‘Jobs and competitive examinations.' KR. Gnanasambandan, former president, Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association, gave a lecture on ‘Spirit of entrepreneurship.' K. Karthikeyan, Coordinator, Naren IAS Academy, proposed a vote of thanks. * * * The Department of Economics of Arul Anandar College, Karumathur, organised a two-day national conference on ‘Global financial crisis and implications on Indian economy.' In his inaugural address, P. Arunachalam, Professor of Applied Economics, Cochin University of Science and Technology, traced the history of the financial crisis and explained the incentive packages offered by the Union Government. The Indian government, he said, should step up expenditure on infrastructural facilities and invite MNCs to augment Foreign Direct Investment. S. Ayyampillai, Head, Department of Economics, Bharathidasan University, in his address, compared the present financial crisis with the Great Depression of 1930s. K. Alamar, Head, Department of Economics, Arul Anandar College, spoke on ‘Financial crisis: a Marxian perspective.' P. Govindarajan, Principal Academic Coordinator, VELS University, spoke on ‘Financial crisis: a structural failure?' A. Renga Reddy of Sri Venkateswara University delivered a talk on ‘State control - an alternative to financial crisis?' Rev. Fr. G. Pushparaj, Principal, in his presidential address, said that the financial crisis impacted both financial and real sectors. A.R. Veeramani, Registrar, Tamil Nadu Teachers' Education University, in his valedictory address, emphasised that employment and income should be the central focus of government's fiscal stimulus packages. N. Murali proposed a vote of thanks. M. Sivaraman, Controller of Examinations, Gandhigram Rural University, delivered a lecture on the ‘Sun' at an inter-collegiate students seminar organised by the Department of Physics. Shanmuga Raja, vice-president of Physics Association, welcomed the gathering. I. Kulandaisamy, Head, Department of Physics, also addressed the gathering. * * * The Science Club of Madurai Kamaraj University College organised a lecture on ‘Global Warming and Copenhagen Conference' by C.E. Karunakaran, former Chairman, Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organisation of Tamil Nadu, while stressing the need for controlling the emission of greenhouse gases, said that developed countries should understand the economic problems of developing nations and evolve a universally acceptable formula on climate change. R. Madhanagopal, Principal, presided. S. Ramasundaram welcomed the gathering and G. Sureshkumar proposed a vote of thanks. The National Service Scheme units of the college conducted a seven-day special camp at Vadivelkarai. It was inaugurated by L. Arumugam, panchayat president. The volunteers organised a veterinary camp in which over 500 cattle were given treatment. They also conducted programmes to create awareness of environmental protection, global warming, AIDS and first aid. * * * A two-day workshop on ‘Recent techniques in Biotechnology' was organised by the Department of Zoology of E. M. G. Yadava Women's College. It was inaugurated by E.M.G.S. Indirani, secretary. The Principal, R. Poovazhaki, presided over the inaugural function. The Head, Department of Zoology, L. Jothi Bai, welcomed the gathering. P. Sateesh Kumar and C. Gothandaraman of Medox Bio-Tech, Chennai, demonstrated the method of DNA isolation from whole blood and plasmid preparation. The Career Guidance and Placement Cell of the college conducted a seminar on ‘Effective guidance for Civil Service Examination' in which G. Ramakrishnan, State Information Commissioner, spoke about the skills needed to come out successfully. He also explained how one should prepare for the civil services examination. * * * Sir Isaac Newton's Day was celebrated by the Eureka Physics Association of N.M.S. Sermathai Vasan College for Women. The president of the college, N. Sivasubramanian, in his presidential address, explained the role of Sir Isaac Newton in shaping the rules and laws of physics which play a crucial part in advanced space research. The Principal, S. Gousalya, also addressed the students. N.S. Manimala, Head Department of Physics, explained the life and work of Sir Isaac Newton. A debate on ‘Newton, the genius' was conducted by M. Kavitha. An awareness programme on eye donation was by the NSS, Red Ribbon Club and Youth Red Cross units of the college. Hepsibah, Manager, Eye Bank, Aravind Eye Hospital, in her address, spoke about the importance of eye donation. * * * A NSS camp was organised at Manaloor by Madurai Sivakasi Nadars' Pioneer Meenakshi Women's Colleget Manaloor in which 89 volunteers, along with Programme Officers G. Prema and M. Meenakshy participated. The volunteers were involved in renovating the village temple, community hall and school building. Special meetings were organised for villagers on Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, Violation of Domestic Law, 2005, ‘Role of banks in rural development' and AIDS awareness. A free veterinary camp was also conducted for the village cattle. * * * St. Justin's College of Education organised a workshop on ‘Gender sensitisation' for girl students with the objective of bringing about awareness of gender equality. It was inaugurated by Cynthia Tiphagne of People's Watch. Rev. Sr. Arul Mary, Principal, welcomed the gathering. Sugandha Ramamoorthy, Director, Centre for Women's Studies, Lady Doak College, and Sr. Caroline Joseph conducted sessions on ‘gender gap' and ‘women and women empowerment.' Rexy Corera proposed a vote of thanks. A seminar-cum-workshop on ‘Stress/Time Management' was held at the college for school teachers. It was inaugurated by the Principal Rev. Sr. Arul Mary. Rev. Fr. Thommai Rajan, who was the resource person, spoke on ‘Stress in daily life, Emotional Intelligence and Time management.' Sakthi proposed a vote of thanks. * * * The Crescent Group of Institutions celebrated their annual day recently. The chief guest, G.M. Akbar Ali, Judge, Madras High Court, delivered the annual day address. He also distributed prizes to students for academic proficiency. The correspondent of Crescent girls' institutions, Sherffa. A. Azeez, welcomed the gathering. The Deputy General Manager, Sheik Dawood Khan, proposed a vote of thanks. The Crescent College of Education for Women celebrated Fine Arts Week which created an opportunity for student-teachers to bring out their hidden talents. Many events were conducted for the participants. The Principal of the college, Mahdoom Ariffa, congratulated the winners of the Fine Arts Week events. (Contributed by S. Annamalai)