INTRIGUING Vijay has a big fan following, but his films have been failing    The failure of Sura has made a cash-rich production house like Sun Pictures introspect about star salaries, budgets and pricing Films don't seem to be doing well anywhere, North or South. The stray film succeeding does not prop up the entire industry. The film industry is surviving only thanks to fresh ‘bakhras' willing to pump in money for their five minutes of fame. There are very few old time producers still in the business at least here in the South. The reasons are the cost of production and the obscene amounts of money the stars demand, mostly undeserved. No star however big can guarantee the success of a film and his entire fan following watching the film does not help. Even fans have started shunning bad films and the prime example is Vijay's “Sura”. Vijay's fan following is mind-boggling but it's a long time since his starrer succeeded. One good thing about him is his clarity. He has confessed that he will not experiment or try to don different getups. “My fans are very happy with how I look and they love the way I dance and perform stunts,” is his explanation. The problem lies in his selection of films and directors. He owes it to his fans to see that his films are technically competent with a plausible plot. “Sura” is none of these. Only he can explain whether it's arrogance or complacence. Fans are loyal only if their idols deliver what is expected. The fate of “Prithvi” is a prime example. It's a good film that failed only because of finicky fans grumbling about Puneet's role. Vijay and Puneet get phenomenal openings but negative “word of mouth” ironically amongst fans spoiled the party. “Sura” smacks of star arrogance. The project was hyped up because it happened to be Vijays 50th film though the star himself confessed that it was just another number. There was speculation about who would land the prized job of directing the film. Vijay plumped for Raaj Kumar, a novice and it shows in every frame of the film. You squirm at the shot taking, narration and the tepid humour from the usually reliable Vadivelu. You wonder what attracted Vijay. It's about a fisherman who dreams of building permanent structures as shelter to replace the hamlet they call their abode. Throw in a crooked politician (is there any other kind?) and a rich heroine who falls for his simplicity and you know the yarn. Of course there's the widowed mother and a stupid sidekick. The good thing is that the failure of “Sura” has made a cash rich production house like Sun Pictures to introspect about star salaries, budgets and the pricing when sold to a hapless distributor. The ace up their sleeve is “Enthiran” starring Rajnikanth with a budget that's growing each day. The fate of that film will probably decide whether they should continue film production or be satisfied churning out teary sitcoms. Vijay should realise that his successful films like “Kadhalukku Mariyadhai”, “Kushi” and “Gilli” were made by competent directors. The biggest of stars can't save a bad film and prime examples are Rajnis “Baba” and “Kuselan”. S. SHIVA KUMAR sshivu@yahoo.com