When the Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) launched a major initiative about a year ago to mainstream HIV/AIDS care by seeking the collaboration and involvement of various ministries, government departments, corporate houses and business sector as well as people's representatives, it was not expected to be an overnight success. The socio-economic aspect of HIV/AIDS cannot be easily conveyed to the people. Also issues such as combating the stigma associated with the disease and workplace issues are topics that require sensitive handling. However, a year later, the Mainstreaming Division of the KSACS feels that it is on the right track in sensitising the corporate sector and attracting their resources to initiate workplace interventions. According to the KSACS, its pilot project with the Group of Techno Park Companies (G-TECH) has evoked such a positive response that it will now focus its efforts on wooing the corporate sector towards HIV prevention initiatives. Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS care and getting a multi-sectoral response to HIV prevention and control programmes are the main objectives in the third phase of the National AIDS Control Programme (NACP). The core idea behind the mainstreaming effort is that the response to HIV can be effective only if it goes beyond the health sector and connects to people from various sectors. The health initiatives aside, the idea is to get the government, the corporate sector and the civil society involved in fighting HIV. The KSACS's effort has been to get every department to respond to the challenge of HIV/AIDS by identifying how best they can integrate HIV prevention activities into their core business The adoption of an HIV/AIDS Policy for its member companies by G-TECH is thus seen as a bold step and proclaims their commitment to inculcate awareness of HIV/AIDS at the deepest level among the member companies, their employees and their families. The policy states that no employee will be discriminated against and that regular HIV awareness programmes would be taken up at all government-owned information technology parks in the State. The G-TECH companies have incorporated a module on HIV/AIDS in their staff induction training program and are organising voluntary blood donation on a regular basis. They also are cooperating with the KSACS on various HIV-related initiatives. The KSACS has been interacting with various government departments, including Social Welfare, Education, Labour, Police, Prison, Tourism and Local Self-Governance, with whom alliances could be forged to spread the message against HIV. C. Maya