SPECIAL DAY: Governor Muralidhar Chandrakant Bhandare taking the salute of the Republic Day parade in Bhubaneswar on Tuesday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter BHUBANESWAR: Under the shadow of threat from Left wing extremists, the 61st Republic Day was celebrated across the State amid the tight security, while people’s turnout was noticeably low in Maoist-affected districts on Tuesday. As many as 40 platoons of police personnel were deployed around Mahatma Gandhi Marg here where the Republic Day celebrations passed off peacefully. Governor Muralidhar Chandrakant Bhandare unfurled the tricolour and took salute of impressive parade by police forces and schoolchildren. The State-level function was marked by procession of spectacular tableaux that demonstrated Orissa’s progress in industrial and other sectors. Orissa State AIDS Control Society came out with a model of a panicked person affected by the dreaded disease. It attracted the attention of spectators who braved chilling winter wind to reach the venue. Tableaux on Janani Surakhya Express and School Health Programmes also drew people’s attention. Among others, tableaux of Orissa Mining Corporation, Rourkela Steel Plant, State Bank of India and Paradip Port Trust were taken out along the main parade ground. However, stunning folk dances performed by artistes from different districts stole the show. The mask dance from Ganjam, Dulduli dance from Sambalpur, Naga dance from Puri and horse riding dance from Koraput was thoroughly enjoyed by spectators who reached the capital city from all corners of the State. Similarly, march past by troops of armed police, civil defence, Bharat Scouts and Guides and schoolchildren was another major attraction of the day. Security was also tightened at all major government installations especially police establishments with frequent patrols in view of bandh call given by CPI (Maoist). The boycott call was taken seriously in wake of arrest of wife of top naxal leader Sabyasachi Panda from Bhubaneswar recently. In the district headquarters towns of Keonjhar, Malkanagiri and Sundargarh, the shadow of naxal threat was clearly visible. No big crowd was observed in these naxal-affected districts. On eve of Republic Day, a big iron ore mine was raided by about 100 armed Maoists in Sundargarh district while a top construction company was attacked by the rebel in Keonjhar. In naxal strongholds like Sambalpur, Rayagada, Debagarh, Malkangiri, Sundargarh and Gajapati, police kept their finger crossed in apprehension of Maoists’ attack. However, no untoward incident involving loss of lives was reported from any district.