Activist groups spearheading the campaign for protection of rights and livelihoods of farmers and peasant here on Saturday demanded that the Union Government make public its negotiations for the European Union-India Free Trade Agreement likely to be concluded later this month. They fear that the pact's focus would be on “furthering global capitalist interests”. The deal must not infringe on the policy space and regulatory capacity of the Union Government to shape economic and social policies that serve the most vulnerable of the people and should in fact “enable the Government to intervene in the markets for the public interest”, stated a signed statement released jointly by three voluntary organisations here. The EU-India FTA would take away people's right to access affordable medicines. India was able to produce generic medicines competitively because Indian patent law until recently did not allow monopolistic patents on medicines, pointed out the activist groups while demanding that the public at large and State legislatures be consulted before signing the agreement. The groups which released the statement were the Jaipur-based Centre for Community Economics and Development Consultants' Society, Rajasthan Kisan Seva Samiti Mahasangh and the Sanjha Manch. Centre's co-director Alka Awasthi pointed out that the Union Government had utilised the flexibilities available under the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) to include public health safeguards in the law when it introduced patent protection for medicines. Parliament has secured a space for access to affordable medicines by ensuring that the right to health is predominant over multinational companies' profits. Such public health safeguards have been essential to prevent patenting of some crucial anti-retrovirals in the country, including tenofovir, said Dr. Awasthi. The European Union, on the other hand, has reportedly insisted on some terms during the FTA negotiations which, if implemented, would adversely affect the availability of medicines. The conditions include data exclusivity, patent term extensions and enforcement and border measures. None of these restrictive provisions is required under the TRIPS Agreement. “If the EU-India FTA is signed, it could compromise access to life-saving medicines in India and elsewhere in the developing world. India will not be able to produce new medicines invented after 1995. The agreement undermines the Indian judiciary's role in protecting patients,” affirmed the statement. Citing an instance, Dr. Awasthi said a mere 0.1 per cent increase in HIV prevalence in the country would raise the estimated number of people living with HIV by over 5 lakh.