Thirty-eight schoolchildren participated enthusiastically in a programme on Tuesday, which was aimed at creating awareness about their rights and obtaining feedback on the issue. The programme was organised by the Karnataka Child Rights Observatory, in association with Padi, a Mangalore-based non-governmental organisation. During the programme, the children, aged up to 18 years, were made to deliberate on issues such as female foeticide, child marriage, single parenthood, child labour, gender bias, caste discrimination, HIV/AIDS, education, problems of migrant children and so on. They were told about the legal avenues open to the children in times of trouble. Concepts such as child welfare committee, Childline, National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights, Karnataka Commission for Protection of Child Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The views expressed by the children will be conveyed to the Indian Alliance for Child Rights, according to G.M. Rashmi from the Child Rights Trust, who was the resource person. The programme was organised in the context of the Union Government agreeing to revise the National Children's Policy 1974 based on feedback from child rights groups. Issues such as gender bias seemed to be on top of the mind of some participants. Champa (name changed), a Class 9 student, wanted to know what to do in case a girl was harassed by a boy. She told   “If a girl complains to the teacher that a boy in the school is misbehaving with her, then the teacher blames the girl.” Teachers treated children from poor families differently compared to those from rich families, she added. Fathima, another participant, said that she was scared to tell her mother if something like that happened to her. Both, however, like the other participants, were happy to be at the programme and said that they had learned a lot from it. Ashika A. Kumar felt that such programmes should be conducted for all children. While discussing caste and gender, children agreed that discrimination was wrong. Children often call the resource person aside to speak about sexual exploitation and discrimination during programmes such as these, Ms. Rashmi said, and asked for solutions to their problems.