It's early evening at Wolfson stadium in Port Elizabeth, not far from the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium that is hours from staging the Brazil-Netherlands World Cup quarterfinal. A group of boys and girls, all under-15, engage in the play-acting common to young football fans all over the globe. “I'm Robinho,” says one. “I'm Ronaldinho,” says another, a girl sporting dreadlocks similar to those worn by the buck-toothed Brazilian. These children have just given a group of journalists from India and Argentina a footballing lesson in an eight-a-side game, which only attained parity when the teams were rearranged at half time to accommodate equal numbers of the fleet-footed and technically superior youths on both sides. More than 600 children from various townships around the Eastern Cape province have gathered at Wolfson stadium for an inter-township Mini World Cup. All of them have honed their skills through ‘A Chance to Shine,' a joint initiative of the Volkswagen Group Works Council and Terre des Hommes, a German child rights NGO. Among the prominent names that have assisted the project are the players from VfL Wolfsburg, which topped the German Bundesliga in the 2008-09 season. Earlier this year, Wolfsburg and local clubs Moroka Swallows and Bay United conducted a coaching clinic at Port Elizabeth's New Brighton township. “This is an interesting project, because it's directly funded by the workers,” says Carsten Krebs, a spokesperson from Volkswagen South Africa. “When employees get their salaries, the cent figure at the end is rounded off, and goes into a big pot. Volkswagen has a massive workforce, and together, they raise around 450,000 euros each year, which goes into funding this project.” The children at the project are coached in football, rugby, cricket and other sports, and are also provided with life skills training. “The life skills aspect is critical, especially here in the Eastern Cape province, where over half the population lives below the poverty line,” says Krebs. “Through sport, the project tries to educate these kids in areas such as HIV and AIDS awareness and child sexual abuse, and also give them some form of career guidance,” he says. “And it's possible that some of them might even become professional footballers in the future.” 