Aadhi. —    For actors doing never-done-before roles involves the risk of denting their career. Soon after he kick-started his career in the Tamil film industry, actor Aadhi was game for the risk. He talks to S. Aishwarya on his penchant for switching roles and his strategy to choose ‘his kind of' films. His maiden movie Mirugam, which was hit by controversies for its subtle message on HIV /AIDS, also made waves in the film industry for his realistic histrionics. Casting off his ruffian looks that he sported in Mirugam, Aadhi put on the cap of a cop in his second film Eeram. The supernatural thriller, which was a runaway success, portrayed Aadhi as a suave police officer, getting rid of the tough guy-look of his previous film. “I received similar offers to act in movies with a rustic set-up soon after I did Mirugam. I had to consciously turn them down as I am paranoid about being stereotyped as a certain kind of actor,” he says. With Eeram's success, Aadhi decided to try his hands in the commercial genre. When he searched for a suitable role, Ayyanar came his way. Even before he completed the project, he was signed in an untitled film directed by a debutant. Tentatively titled Kumbhamela, the film shows the actor as an urbanised son of an affluent father, a role played by Prabhu. “It needs a lot of hard work and perseverance to be named as ‘directors' actor,” says Aadhi, who is the son of a director. His father Ravi Raja Pinisetty, a Telugu director, taught him his fundamentals when he made a tryst with the Telugu industry in Oka Vichitram, before the Tamil industry beckoned him. “I chose Eeram mainly to break the village image that I carried along after my first film. Its off-beat storyline did the trick. Now I want to stay off from such storylines for a while to sign up for commercial films. That is where the success of an actor is…to fit into any role that the director tells us,” he says. The actor who is now scouting for characters that have enough scope for humour is determined to experiment with roles. “Versatility is something that does not quite come easily for any actor. What keeps me going is the change of roles and I don't think I would be happy to do a same kind of roles, even if it ensures success.”