For good health: Salem Periyar University in association with Youth Red Cross and Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, conducted an awareness programme on ‘HIV AIDS - Safe Motherhood' in Salem on Thursday. - Photo: Special Arrangement    “HIV prevention and care are essential for safe motherhood and maternity services could play a crucial role in improving the care for pregnant women with HIV and AIDS and helping to reduce the spread before, during and after pregnancy,” said Dr. K. Muthuchelian, Vice Chancellor, Salem Periyar University. Inaugurating the awareness programme on ‘HIV AIDS - Safe Motherhood,' organised jointly by Youth Red Cross, Salem Periyar University and Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine Department, here on Thursday, the Vice Chancellor said that the objective could be achieved by health workers who could play an important role in educating people about HIV/AIDS. “This may involve working with teachers, youth groups, women's groups and others, to help people to understand HIV better and find ways to encourage and support behaviour change. “Improving women's status in society is also crucial - only then will women be able to negotiate with their partners for safer sex. “The health and well being of women everywhere is of great importance in its own right. It is also a key to the health and well being of their families, communities and societies,” he further pointed out. But every year, over half a million women in developing countries die in pregnancy and childbirth. The Safe Motherhood Initiative was started in 1987 to improve maternity services and to protect the health of mothers and their infants. “HIV presents an enormous challenge to safe motherhood,” he said and added that it was estimated that approximately two million HIV-positive women worldwide would give birth. In several major towns in eastern and southern Africa, more than a quarter of pregnant women were now HIV positive. “Women with HIV are more likely to have complications during pregnancy and delivery, or abortion. They are more vulnerable to anaemia, malaria, pneumonia, urinary infections, and tuberculosis (TB). “For women with symptomatic HIV, pregnancy can also speed up the progress of their illness to AIDS. In South Africa, about one in eight maternal deaths are directly linked to HIV.” “It is estimated that in Africa and Asia, more than two million children each year will lose their mother or both parents to AIDS. These children are in high risk group of poverty, neglect and early death. “HIV can also pass from mother to child during pregnancy, labour and delivery, or through breastfeeding. “It is not known exactly what proportion of babies born to HIV-positive mothers will be infected themselves, but without any kind of intervention, it is estimated that between 15 and 45 out of every 100 would be infected,” he said. Around 5,70,000 children aged 14 or younger (most of them in sub-Saharan Africa) became HIV positive in 1999, almost all from mother-to-child transmission. The prospects for infected children were not good. Children who were HIV positive were over 20 times more likely to die before the age of five than non-infected children. A study in Rwanda found that even with frequent medical treatment, over a quarter of the children with HIV in the study had died before they were two years old, and over half died before their fifth birthday, he pointed out.  YRC co-ordinator P. Thirumoorthi presided. The sessions were handled by a team of doctors including Dr. P.Gugapriya, Dr. H.Keerthana and Dr. Selvam. Funded by UNICEF, it is being implemented for the first time in the country in Salem district. College students in Salem district, approximately 70,000 will be given awareness in the Phase I programme who in turn make the general public aware under Phase II.