MOVING MOMENTS The film leaves you with a lump in the throat   | Photo Credit:  Both Apta Rakshaka and MNIK get mixed reactions: some adore, some abhor Sahasa Simha Vishnuvardhan's swan song "Apta Rakshaka" got released to an opening unseen in the recent history of Kannada cinema. Though another film released after his demise, "Master", it disappeared from theatres. The response was not unforeseensince "Apta Mithra" is a cultfilm. Of course the huge turnout isa homage to Vishnuvardhan, astar everyone loved. Diehard "Aptha Mitra" fans saythey are disappointed. There's asense of deja vu but it's not evenhalf as good as the original accordingto a fan. The role taxesVishnu physically more than asan effortless performer. Most ofthe crowded cast have very littleto do purely because their charactershaven't been fleshed out. PKH Das' close-ups are out of focus.It's sad to watch the mosthandsome face in Kannada cinemalooking tired and jaded. Youdo leave with a lump in yourthroat when in the end he's creditedwith exorcizing Nagavalli butVishnu points to the viewers andsays, "All credit to them." If hehad been alive we could haveshouted, `encore'.* * * Surprisingly a Shahrukh Khanfilm is receiving a much dividedopinion. Some have loved"MNIK" and some hate it. Criticstoo have either run out of stars ortorn "MNIK" to shreds. It's not agreat film but is Karan Johar'sbest film considering his limitedcapabilities. The first half is a breeze, especiallythe romantic portionswhich are Karan's forte. It's in theaftermath of a tragedy that Karanloses his way. Combining issueswith emotions takes a toll on thenarrative. There's precious little by wayof content as SRK trudges alongthe South of North America seekingan audience with the President.The portion where he savesa village filled with blacks thatseems to have been caught in atime warp is clumsy. It's Karan'sway of showing kinship betweenminorities. That doesn't takeaway from the ably handled emotionalscenes. They move you as much as theromantic scenes. UltimatelyShahrukh carries the film on hisshoulders along with the everwatchable Kajol. Their chemistry is a reflectionof the comfort they share offscreen.Shahrukh as a performeris a revelation. I haven't interactedwith anyone suffering theAsperger's syndrome but the consistencyin the idiosyncrasies he'screated for the role is remarkable.There are very few shots where hefalters. As for Kajol all we can sayis `we can't get enough of you'. S. SHIVA KUMAR sshivu@yahoo.com