Without Defence Immunodeficiency can cause common allergies or serious diseases    T he human body's immunity rises to the occasion whenever there is an encounter of the body with elements in the environment which have the propensity to cause ill heath and disease. The deficiency in immunity causes the reduction in ability of the body to defend itself from infection and even grave diseases like cancer. This deficiency commonly termed as immunodeficiency can be there right from birth called as congenital or acquired. The body's immunity produces B lymphocytes which are responsible for the bank of antibodies which in turn have the capacity to identify and particular infective agent and trigger a protective response. The other cells are T lymphocytes which are known to fight infection and cancer too. Once immunodeficiency sets in, the particular individual is prone to even trivial bacteria and viruses which under normal circumstances would not even affect them. There is an increased susceptibility to illnesses at this point of time with the person being prone to recurrent infections of the same nature or of different agents. This state of immunodeficiency can occur in case of malnutrition wherein the proteins in the system are not sufficient enough to sustain the body's protective response. It could occur if there is inheritance of this condition. Chronic diseases like Diabetes can also lead to this condition. Infective diseases which tend to settle down and breakdown the lymphocytes in particular like AIDS can also this condition. A defective formation of genes right from the time of birth also does not bode well for immunity. There are also some drugs which are likely to cause immune suppression. Probably the first area of the body which is susceptible to the external environment is the skin and rashes on the skin are of a common occurrence to begin with. The goal of treatment for immunodeficiency disorders includes protection against the probable infections and also a prompt treatment of diseases The advantage of homoeopathic medicines is that these evoke the innate response and possess the fighting skills to react and respond to infective agents whether in the form of antibodies or even to neutralize an infective agent. It is also seen that in an immunodeficient person on homoeopathic medication the number of infections reduce in frequency and also lesser in intensity, as the gradually recur lesser number of times. Another advantage is that they do not have any side effects. DR. VENUGOPAL GOURI