Winner all the way:P. Kavyavarshini displaying the award she won at a contest organised by Spoorthi Creative Art School in Vijayawada on Sunday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: The atmosphere was relaxed and refreshing, as children of all age groups, with their parents in tow, strolled across gazing at the row of paintings displayed in the auditorium. The campus of the Spoorthi Creative Art School was transformed into a creative zone on Sunday with art enthusiasts thronging the place to be part of a painting exhibition. The action-packed day encompassed several other features, including inauguration of a chess coaching camp, best budding artist award function, a seminar on ‘Art and Craft' and a demo on animation. In his quest to popularise the language of art, G. Srinivas, director of the art school, created a platform for schoolchildren to hone their latent talent in creative skills. Wide spectrum The wide spectrum of art forms revolved around social issues such as ‘Go Green', ‘Impact of AIDS', ‘Population Explosion' and ‘Child Labour'. Young art enthusiasts in the city could not have asked for a better Sunday. The close to 160 paintings, done by 15 students, reflected myriad notions of the young minds on a gamut of contemporary concerns. “The whole idea of organising this event is to familiarise parents with the richness embedded in each art form, be it drawing, painting, craft, animation or any other form. Children who are good in drawing are essentially superior in skills like animation, architecture, fashion designing or jewellery designing. I want parents to look beyond the images drawn manually by the young ones. It is their creative zeal that comes into the public focus on such platforms,” said Mr. Srinivas. Of the nearly 200 regular students the art school has, Potla Kavyavarshini, an eighth class student from V.P. Siddhartha Public School, won the ‘Best Budding Artist Award' for this year for her outstanding performance in various art exhibitions conducted through the year. Velaga Joshi, CEO, Krishi, Krishna district, inaugurated the painting exhibition, M. Silpa, an advocate from the city, formally opened the chess coaching camp, Dibakar Maharana of Bhubaneshwar addressed a seminar on ‘Art and Craft' while Khasim, manager of Guntur-based Arena Animation, gave a demo on animation. Summer camp The art school is also organising summer coaching camp from April 11 to June 10. The courses it will offer include drawing, painting, handwriting and creative craft, diploma training in MS Office, Pagemaker, Photoshop and 2D & 3D animation.