Gorakhpur: After she tested positive for HIV three years ago, Bhanumati (name changed) was shattered. Living under the shadow of death, the 36-year-old feared she too would die of the infection like her husband. But today she spearheads AIDS/HIV awareness programmes in villages of Uttar Pradesh. Bhanumati, a resident of Tilauli village in Gorakhpur, some 300 km from Lucknow, has formed an all-women group that undertakes counselling of AIDS/HIV patients and organises sensitisation programmes. “I feel satisfied in being associated with such programmes. I want to serve the patients afflicted with the dreaded disease so long as I am alive.” Her group of nearly 35 members includes 17 HIV positive women who organise AIDS awareness programmes in several villages of Gorakhpur district. “We operate in nearly 10 villages with the support of an NGO - Gorakhpur Environmental Action Group (GEAG),” she said. It was during a free HIV check-up camp organised by the GEAG in association with the government that Bhanumati was diagnosed with the HIV infection. “We knew that her (Bhanumati's) husband had died of HIV. So, we asked her to go through the check-up,” Jitendra Dwivedi, a member of the GEAG said. The people of Tilauli village socially boycotted Bhanumati after they came to know she was HIV positive. “They (villagers) stopped inviting me to their houses during functions...It was quite painful... A life of stigma and isolation. It all continued for nearly one year until I decided to work for HIV patients. I approached the NGO members, who appreciated my idea. Then came a new hope of living and I started working with them in AIDS sensitisation campaigns .” Today Bhanumati has a job of a peon at a private office in Gorakhpur and is taking care of her five-year-old daughter. “The awareness programmes and my job keeps me occupied and as a result negative thoughts do not enter my mind. During the work hours, I get diverted from my problems,” Bhanumati said. “Today I have a mission to sensitise more and more people about HIV/AIDS. It's the driving force behind me... I hope more and more villagers will join me in my awareness campaigns,” she added. - IANS