Photographers and reporters who went to cover the proceedings on the day Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa sought trust vote for the second time were left wondering if they were covering an event in the familiar Vidhana Soudha or a major military operation with national security at stake. There were security men everywhere and any journo who dared stray even an inch from the reporters' gallery was threatened with dire consequences. “I will seize your pass!” one police officer told this photographer, with brows knitted, on being spotted outside the designated area. Not that these threats stopped the ever-enterprising photographers. They (including yours truly) did cross the Lakshman Rekha, escaping the strict vigil, to get a few good shots. It appears that cracking cases and nabbing offenders is more than just duty for the city police: it also has to be accompanied by some flourishes of the trumpet. The Viveknagar police on Tuesday evening arrested three alleged drug peddlers. When the print media reporters contacted the police to get more information, a high-ranking official clammed up. According to the officer, the case was important and required publicity. “Please wait for a day, we will provide all details. We have cracked such a case after a long time,” he said, adding more would be revealed at a press meet. When this reporter pointed out that the TV channels were already on it, the officer said: “They are just flashing the news. We will give a detailed press note on Wednesday.” Even as Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd., (BMRCL) is on a publicity overdrive before commencing its operations, Bangaloreans appear to be sceptical about Namma Metro meeting its December deadline. Last week, BMRCL invited entries from the public and companies to come up with a signature tune, offering Rs. 1 lakh as cash prize. As the news spread, radio jockeys (RJs) on FM channels were chatting with listeners asking them which signature tune was best suited for Namma Metro. A listener promptly suggested the song, “Yemme ninage saatiyilla….” (Oh buffalo, you have no comparison). Asked why, the listener said come what may, Namma Metro will take its own time to move. Another listener suggested “Yaaro yaaro geechi hoda…” saying Namma Metro has left an indelible mark on sections of the population who have paid the price for the project. V. SREENIVASA MURTHY, M.T. SHIVAKUMAR, ANIL KUMAR SASTRY