Safety first: Traffic SI A.V. Satyanarayana addressing a traffic awareness meeting in Rajahmundry on Sunday. —   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter Rajahmundry: Lions Club of Rajahmundry Rainbow, Traffic Police, INTUC and TNTUC have jointly decided to introduce ‘Best Auto Driver’ award from this year to those drivers, who drive without single accident or minimum one or two accidents in a year. Addressing a traffic awareness meeting here on Sunday organised by Lions Club of Rajahmundry Rainbow, Deputy Mayor and TNTUC leader B. Satyanarayana Prasad, Lion Ennamuri Sriramachandra Murthy, INTUC Auto Union president Vasamsetti Gangadhar, traffic sub-inspector A.V. Satyanarayana and motor vehicle inspector Bheema Rao announced that under the award the two best drivers would be given cash prize, memento and shawl every year. Addressing the meeting, the SIsaid auto drivers should maintain dress courtesy and look trim and nice. He asked drivers to follow traffic rules like wearing badge, uniform, keeping C book, licence and stop rash driving. He said there was no intention to police to levy fine on auto drivers, who earn hardly Rs.150 by evening. Mr. Satyanarayana said their aim and target was to see that there would be no accidents and no violation of traffic rules in the city. Mr. Bheema Raosaid films should not project auto drivers as goons or rowdies.The Deputy Mayor laid emphasis on health aspects of auto drivers. He said HIV was a dreaded disease and drivers should keep away from all bad habits like extra marital relations, consuming liquor and driving autos at high-speed. Mr. Gangadhar said most of the accidents are occurring because of auto drivers who are not members of any union. He recalled that in the guise of auto drivers, dacoit gangs, thieves are entering into the city and asked police and auto drivers to be cautious. He requested police or Lions club to bring out a pamphlet or a pocket dairy on traffic violations and fines. Charted Accountant Godavari Srinivasulu, Lions secretary G. Venkateswara Rao, treasurer J. Rohini Kumar, Lions past Governor Granthi Venkateswara Rao and others spoke on this occasion.