A MAN OF SUBSTANCE Suniel Shetty at Agni, The Park in New Delhi photo: SHIV KUMAR PUSHPAKAR    H e may walk with the arrogance of a star but his tone exudes the softness of a gentleman never touched by haughtiness. Unlike many of his peers , he doesn't fake an (English) accent despite being safely home with an impressive vocabulary and expression; in fact, he laces his chat with Hindi proverbs and sayings. He talks with the passion of a dedicated actor and the friendliness of a next door neighbour. Meet Suniel Shetty, recently in New Delhi's The Park Hotel to promote   With   directed by Anant Narayan Mahadevan, the actor moves to an off-beat role he isn't usually associated with. The idea of the story culled from the first person account of a reluctant Naxal convert is penned by Aruna Raje. He admits, “Finally, for me, it's a step towards maturity – a step above my earlier performances. It's a film for which no one would say I made a wrong choice. I have been reading about the Naxalite movement and realised it has been branded as ‘terrorism' which it is not. It has been unnecessarily made controversial. I did the film because it raises issues from a common man's perspective and gives a solution and a message.” About his role Suniel says, “I play a needy farmer Narasimha who is trapped in the Naxal movement. He attempts to convince his leader (Vinod Khanna) that gun is not the answer. But he gets a shocking response from him who says he is ‘riding a tiger which he cannot get off'. The film emphasises that   (wisdom is bigger than weapon) and one must think rationally.” So influenced was Suniel by the real stories of Naxalites that he went to the Maharashtra Chief Minister R. R. Patil for their cause. “Those who have taken to guns are helpless poor people. They lack basic facilities like water, food and sanitation. I went to the CM and told him there is no way to end this problem unless they are provided with basic amenities and aids. He immediately took a village under his wingand promised to take care of it.” For Suniel such gestures aren't a one-time affair. Before the Kargil War ended, he went to Kargil, Drass, Kashgar and other places where refugee camps were set up. “After I worked in J. P Dutta's   and got to know the real problems of thousands of displaced Kashmiris and other people in the region, I went to meet them. The suspicious youth there asked me, ‘why have you come here? You are always seen as the gun-trotting , Pakistan-bashing police-wala and you play an army-wala in the film (  '. I said I haven't come as actor Suniel Shetty but as a human being who feels for you. It took me sometime to convince them of my genuine concerns . Through my NGO (Save the children) and another NGO Pride, I sent whatever help I could. But I knew it was too little. I am shocked at how the government is sleeping over their genuine problems and those of the Naxals. If our politicians had cared less about their new portfolios and more about their real problems 20 years ago, there wouldn't have been any gun-toting youths from these areas,” says the actor pensively. The actor has also adopted a village called Mahad on the outskirts of Maharashtra. He says with a glint in his eyes, “Through my NGO, we have rescued girls from brothels and taught them skills like cooking, stitching, embroidery and teaching. We pick up orphaned street kids and educate them. We have made hospitals there. It feels good to see them smiling. It brings me immense satisfaction and nice sleep,” he says. Suniel's concerns have transferred to his 15-year-old son Ahaan too. The father shares, “Ahaan has his own music band of which he is the lead singer and guitarist. He teaches guitar to the speech and hearing impaired in Maharashtra.” Amid all that, Suniel doesn't deny that visibility matters and hence his presence in commercial films is a must. He is not taking   as his route to serious film roles. But in the same breath he says “failure of big budget, star-studded, content-less films is a lesson” for the weakening film industry. “Film industry has lost its distribution network. Now there are more takers for regional films. I do need films like   and   (forthcoming projects) to remain in the fray. I enjoy comedy but I would keep on doing off beat films to stay grounded,” he concludes.