C.S. Dwarakanath, the outgoing chairperson of the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission, is preparing to submit his final report to the Government next week, breaking convention in both form and content. The report, unlike that of his predecessors, will be an “open report” which will be simultaneously presented to the Government and released to the public. The entire document will be in Kannada, while reports in the past have been originally in English and later translated into Kannada. Mr. Dwarakanath, whose term ends on July 9, said both these decisions were taken to make it more accessible to people for whose benefit and uplift it is meant. “There were no specific rules that make it mandatory for reports to be confidential. It is only a convention that makes little sense. “What is the point of a report on the backward classes if it cannot reach them?,” he asked. It may be recalled here that the Justice Somashekhara Commission of Inquiry had attracted flak from some quarters of the BJP Government recently for “making public” its interim report. The contents of the report are not yet finalised, but its highlight is expected to be inclusion of three new categories under the backward classes list: the transgender community and children of sex workers and children of HIV-positive people. “Since the commission addresses backward classes and not only castes, these people can be brought under the ambit of backward classes,” Mr. Dwarakanath told  . The commission had earlier held a public hearing in which transgender people had appealed for inclusion into the backward classes list. Even as Mr. Dwarakanath completes his term, some of the important recommendations of his commission have been consistently ignored by the Government. Repeated efforts of the commission to get the proposed caste-based survey off the ground have met with little response. “We submitted even a calendar of events last month, but have not heard from the Government,” said Mr. Dwarakanath. His several other recommendation — including the ones on increasing the income ceiling for “creamy layer”, giving compensation for Category One of Backward Classes castes who face atrocities and on creating a commission to look into the problems of nomadic tribes — have not been acted upon. In March 2008, the Government had asked Mr. Dwarakanath to resign from his post, which he resisted by approaching the High Court. Earlier this year, the Government decided to withdraw the judicial status accorded to him. Mr. Dwarakanath had questioned this decision also n the High Court and got a stay.