A relay cycle rally to create awareness on issues concerning children infected and affected by HIV/AIDS was flagged off in Coimbatore on Friday. — Photo: K. Ananthan    More than 50 college students and staff of the District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit left the city this morning on a 55-km cycle rally to Tirupur, as part of the awareness drive in the run-up to observing World AIDS Day on December 1. The rally also aimed at creating awareness on the Tamil Nadu Trust for Children Affected by HIV/AIDS and its initiatives to reach out to such children. The rally was flagged off by Coimbatore Medical College Hospital's Medical Superintendent A. Mathivanan from the control unit's office at Race Course. District Programme Manager of the unit B. Mohammed Ali was present and Resident Medical Officer of the hospital P. Sivaprakasam were present. Till Tirupur, the rally would cover 55 km in order to sensitise the people in the rural areas also to AIDS (acquired immuno deficiency syndrome) prevention. Dr. Mathivanan said co-ordinators in the integrated counselling and testing centres in the district were also taking part in the rally. Dr. Ali said this was a relay rally. The team from Coimbatore would stop at Tirupur, from where another team would go to Erode. Teams from Namakkal, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Vellore would take part in the rally. The team from Vellore would reach Chennai on December 1. Along the rally route, the volunteers would distribute pamphlets containing AIDS prevention message and guidelines to the public. A van with a public address system would also be part of the rally. Volunteers or public health staff involved in AIDS prevention programmes would tell the people about the reasons owing to which people contracted HIV (human immuno-deficiency virus) and how they would become full-blown AIDS cases. At the same time, the campaign would also focus on educating the public on how to prevent HIV and also how persons with HIV could lead normal life with proper treatment. A number of awareness programme would be held on World AIDS Day across Coimbatore District, Dr. Ali said. According to Deputy Director of Health Services S. Senthil Kumar, 3,791 persons living with HIV in the district received free anti-retroviral therapy at the CMCH. A total of 132 children with HIV were also being provided with this treatment.