Bringing awareness on importance of voluntary blood donation has become essential in the backdrop of increasing instances of donors testing HIV positive and the World Health Organisation now focuses on young donors. On World Blood Donors' Day on June 14, Visakhapatnam District Medical and Health Office has come up with numerous programmes to take the concept to the people in the villages. For the WBD-2010 the slogan is ‘New blood for the world'. A new generation of idealistic, motivated voluntary unpaid blood donors must form a pool that provides the safest blood possible for use, said Additional DMHO P. Rajendra Prasad told  . Whenever blood is needed to save life youth will be in the focus and all 13 blood banks in the district have been attached to a few mandals each to focus on spreading awareness on voluntary donation. “We wish to infuse new blood into the pool and not the same donors coming repeatedly,” Dr. Prasad observed. Recruiting and retaining young donors not only improves the long-term safety and sufficiency of blood supply, but also promotes safe and healthy lifestyles. Youth unable to donate for any reason can volunteer their service as advocates. The King George Hospital, Victoria Government Hospital for Women and Children (Ghosha hospital) will organise rallies on Monday and a seminar would be organised for the medical fraternity and the general public on blood donation. Assistant Director Drug Control Administration Ravi Uday Bhaskar said that there were 13 blood banks in the district with 6 of them authorised to conduct camps to collect blood. While four blood banks had the components separation facility including A.S. Raja, Red Cross and KGH in the city. Blood bank at Anakapalle Government Hospital would also get a component separation unit very soon. On the World Blood Donors' Day all the blood banks have been asked to honour frequent voluntary donors on their premises to encourage those coming forward without aspiring anything in return. The 58 {+t} {+h} World Health Assembly declaration of commitment and support for voluntary blood donation through Resolution WHA58.13 designated the Day as an annual event on 14 June.