RAISING AWARENESS: A folk performance held as part of the ‘Illavattam – Youth Carnival 2010' in Chennai on Tuesday. — Photo: K. Pichumani    The three-day ‘Illavattam – Youth Carnival 2010,' an HIV/AIDS awareness event, got off to a colourful start here on Tuesday. Nearly 1.5 lakh students from various schools and colleges across the State are participating in a string of cultural and sports events, organised as part of the carnival by the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS). Inaugurating the event, Health Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said that people in the 16-28 age-group were more susceptible to HIV/AIDS and awareness campaigns are necessary to sensitise them. Over 500 Red Ribbon Clubs would be set up in schools and colleges across the State to strengthen the awareness among the students. Of the 1.82 lakh people with HIV/AIDS in the State, nearly 45,000 are under ART treatment. “The ‘Varumun Kappom' scheme has integrated counselling in the medical camps to sensitise people to HIV/AIDS,” he said. Terming the carnival as ‘India's largest youth cultural event,' Mr. Panneerselvam said youth should be the torch-bearers and carry forward the awareness messages to people. Principal Secretary Health V.K. Subburaj said that nearly Rs.100 crore was being spent on measures to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS every year. “Awareness campaigns form the core of prevention mechanism. As many have misconceptions about HIV transmission, the social taboo is high,” he said. Mayor M. Subramanian reiterated the importance of youngsters knowing the right information about HIV/AIDS. TANSACS Project Director Shambu Kallolikar, Chennai Corporation AIDS Prevention and Control Society Project Director P. Jyothi Nirmala, Tamilnadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University Vice-Chancellor Mayil Vahanan Natarajan, University of Madras Registrar P. Saravanan and Director of Collegiate Education S. Jayabaskaran Charles participated in the event. District-level competitions were held last month and the winners were selected to participate in the State-level events. Over 14,000 students are participating in cultural programmes and 25,000 students in sports events. Awareness film screenings, variety entertainment, Gana fest and exhibition are to be held as part of the youth carnival.