Rishab Prasanna    S pic Macay's Virasat 2010 continues with a Kathak dance recital by Uma Sharma and a Kuchipudi dance recital by Vanashree and Guru Jaya Ram Rao. Music programmes in the coming days include violin and flute recitals by Danish Ali and Rishab Prasanna and a sitar duet by Shakir Khan and Azeem Ahmad Alvi. We also have an interesting theatre performance ‘The Demon Within', the story which goes to explain that both the demon and angel exist in every one of us, with one being the victor over the other. Question is- Which one. Violin and flute recital by Danish Ali, disciple of Iqbal Ahmed and Rishab Prasanna, disciple of Rajendra Prasanna, followed by a sitar duet by Shakir Khan and Azeem Ahmad Alvi, disciples of Shahid Parvez. Habitat Centre, 7 p.m. Amogh Lila Das's ‘The Demon Within'. Epicentre, Gurgaon, 7.30 p.m. Exhibition, ‘Timeless Moments', showing the works of 21 global artists concludes today. Epicentre, Gurgaon. The exhibition of recent works of K.G. Subramanyan also concludes today. Art Heritage, Triveni. Kuchipudi recital by Vanashree and Guru Jaya Ram Rao (as part of Virasat 2010). DAV Public School, Sector 14, Faridabad, 10 a.m. Exhibition ‘Sculptures', metal, terracotta and mixed media and drawings by Tridib Bera from West Bengal opens today. IIC, till Dec. 6. Sitar jugalbandi by Shakir Khan and Azeem Ahmed Alvi, disciple of Shahid Parvez Khan. Epicentre, Gurgaon, 7.30 p.m. Exhibition of paintings by Renu Jain, ‘Intertwined Connections'. Triveni, till Dec. 2. ‘Photography exhibition, ‘Neuronal landscapes, homage to Santiago Ramon Y Cajal.' Instituto Cervantes, 48, Hanuman Road, till Jan. 4. ‘Suffering Silence: Untold story of orphan HIV + children', a collection of images and stories of HIV positive children by Srikanth Kolari. (an action aid exhibition to mark the World Aids Day). British Council, K.G. Marg, Nov. 30 to Dec. 6. ‘Photography exhibition, ‘Neuronal landscapes, homage to Santiago Ramon Y Cajal.' Instituto Cervantes, 48, Hanuman Road, till Jan. 4. Exhibition ‘Feminine Recitals' by six artists (Koumudi Patel, Nandini Chirimar, Parvathi Nayar, Pooja Iranna, Remen Chopra and Sukanya Ghosh). Exhibit 320, F-320, Lado Sarai, till December 10. Solo show of paintings by Vijai Patchineelam. Seven Art Gallery, M 44/2 Greater Kailsh II till Jan. 10. ‘Pandora's Canvas' a group show by women artists – Asma Menon, Rekha Hebbar Rao, Andree-Marie Dussault and Nilanjana Nandy. F-213/A, Lado Sarai, till December 11. ‘Cobweb' by Arpita Singh. Vadhera Art Gallery, D-40, Defence Colony, till December 15.