Informative: (Clockwise from top left) A workshop on “Data Mining” in progress in K. Ramakrishnan College of Engineering. Rani Muralidharan, an industrialist, speaking at National College. Inauguration of a women's hostel at Urumu Dhanalakshmi College. M. Subramaniyam, Chairman, Jayaram College of Engineering and Technology, addressing the students during the inauguration of first-year classes.    The Computer Science and Engineering Department of K. Ramakrishnan College of Engineering, Samayapuram, recently organised a one-day workshop on ‘Data Mining – T4 (technologies, techniques, tools and trends).' B. Ramadoss, Head, Department of Computer Applications, NIT, Tiruchi, and S. Parthasarathy, Head, Department of Computer Applications, Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai, were the resource persons. They explained about the evolution, techniques, advantages, applications, analysis and trends of data mining. U. Sarvadayaparan, Director, presided. *** The National College inaugurated the BBA Association. Rani Muralidharan, an industrialist and president, Women Entrepreneurs Association of Tamil Nadu (WEAT), was the chief guest. She spoke on crisis management. P. Sivasamy, Professor of the college, presided. S. Krishnan, Head, Department of BBA, explained the salient features and objectives of the association. Ramakrishnan, management committee member and K. Raghunathan, secretary of the college, spoke. *** The Urumu Dhanalakshmi College inaugurated ‘Srimathi Sakuntala Krishnamurthy' women's hostel. A.V.R. Suganthi Santhanam, national leader of All-India Arya Vysya Mahila Sabha, Salem, inaugurated the hostel. She spoke about women's rights. S. Sekar, Principal of the college, V. Vijayalakshmi, Head, Department of English, R. Sambasivam, Associate Professor, Department of Physics spoke. *** The first-year classes were inaugurated at the Jayaram College of Engineering and Technology recently. M. Subramaniyam, Chairman of the college, presided. He advised the students to make use of the opportunities available in the college. Nirmala Subramaniyam, founder of GRD Trust, lighted the lamp. N. Kannan, Principal of the college, explained the growth of the institution from its inception. *** The Department of Social Work of Chidambaram Pillai College for Women at Mannachanallur, organised an awareness programme on HIV-AIDS and Tuberculosis. Lakshmi, Regional Director of Positive Women Network, Virudhunagar, was the chief guest. She spoke on the causative factors, symptoms, treatments and preventive measures of HIV-AIDS. K. Sekar, Principal, inaugurated the programme and A. Loganathan, Managing Trustee of the college, presided. Rajeswari Loganathan, secretary of the college presided. *** The first-year postgraduate students of Social Work of Bishop Heber College in Tiruchi, organised a five-day rural camp in four villages which included Navalur Kuttapattu, North Ariyavur, South Ariyavur and Muthukulam. The objective of the camp was to create awareness among the villagers on various social issues. During the camp, the students conducted a socio-economic survey. Ashok Kumar, Motor Vehicle Inspector, Tiruchi, and P.Manoharan, Bursar, Bishop Heber College, addressed the students during the camp. *** About 100 students donated blood at a blood donation camp organised jointly by the Directorate of Technical Education and the NSS unit of the Shivani Polytechnic College. K. Ponnusamy, former State Minister, V. Shanmuganathan, Director of the J. J. Educational Institutions, and R. Somasundaram, Principal, felicitated the students. A team of doctors from the Doctors Blood Bank conducted the camp. *** The NSS unit of the Pavendar Bharathidasan Polytechnic College, Mathur, organised a programme on ‘Nutrition and Health.' The programme was conducted by AMC Cookware (India) Private Limited. P. Geetha and Leelavathi, nutritionists and consultants, spoke about ideal body weight, body composition analysis, energy content of food, dietary fats and their functions. They also explained about how to cook with less fat content. Apart from NSS volunteers, diploma students too participated in the programme. An health check up was conducted. V. K. Raman, Principal, underlined the importance of a good health. *** Contributed by K. Subramanian and Syed Muthahar Saqaf