Raising awareness: President of the Kodagu Patrika Bhavan Trust T.P. Ramesh speaking at the workshop on HIV/AIDS in Madikeri on Friday.    Staff Correspondent Madikeri: G.B. Meti, representative of the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS), said on Friday that 5.7 per cent of the 76,000 sex workers in the State had tested positive for HIV. However, the number of HIV cases had come down drastically, thanks to the targeted intervention programmes taken up by the KSAPS in association with the District Aids Prevention Control Units (DAPCUs) and various non-governmental organisations. He was addressing presspersons, representatives of various non-governmental organisations and sex workers at a workshop organised by the KSAPS at the Patrika Bhavan here. The HIV spread was as high as 24 per cent in 2003 and it was now down to 5.7 per cent, he said. Karnataka had taken up the cause of those living with HIV by bringing out a charter to help them face discrimination in society. The charter asserted that people living with HIV/AIDS should not be denied their rights. Recognising the rights and needs of those living with HIV/AIDS was central to an effective public health response and sex workers should be involved in the implementation of HIV/AIDS programmes. It would enable them to empower themselves through education and information in order to protect themselves and minimise their vulnerability to and risk of contracting HIV, Mr. Meti said. Thanks to the intervention activities by the Government and non-governmental organisations, the spread had been contained. During 2008, the increase in the number of cases in the State was only by 0.69 per cent. Efforts were under way to provide free bus passes to those undergoing Anti-Retro-viral Therapy (ART) and nutritional food at a subsidised cost. The KSAPS was in touch with government departments concerned, Mr. Meti said. T.P. Ramesh, president of the Kodagu Patrika Bhavan Trust, mooted introduction of HIV/AIDS education in schools. The Programme Officer of the District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU), Kodagu, K.G. Siddaiah, said that 21 AIDS deaths occurred in Kodagu during 2008-09. Of the 9,023 people who underwent tests in Kodagu in 2008-09, 291, including 35 pregnant women, tested positive. Setting up of an Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) in 2002 and Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission (PPTCT) centre in 2003 at the District Hospital here helped in prevention, detection and controlling HIV/AIDS in Kodagu, Dr. Siddaiah said. Jnanamani Nanaiah, District TB Control Officer, said 70 per cent of the HIV infected also had tuberculosis. David of the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), one of the sponsors of the programme, Ummar, its representative, Anita of the ICTC, Ashwita of the PPTCT, Aarti Somaiah of the ASHAKIRANA-HOPE Initiative, Joyce Menezes of the ODP, Akram Pasha of ASHODAYA, Ramachandra Bhat of MYCAP, Govindaraju from the Sarvodaya Network, and some sex workers, spoke. Sunita, supervisor, DAPCU, welcomed the gathering and proposed a vote of thanks.