District Collector in-charge K.N. Raje has directed officials to convene meetings of mothers to create awareness about fever prevention measures. The social welfare department was entrusted with organising these meetings at a recent meeting chaired by Ms. Raje to review the preventive programmes against outbreak of epidemics. Instructions have been given to organise taluk-level meetings at private hospitals and clinics from July 12 to 17. District Medical Officer K.T. Remani informed the meeting that arrangements had been made at the primary health centre level for the treatment of A (H1N1) Influenza. A special meeting of education officers, sub-district officers, and college authorities under the aegis of the education department and the college education department will be held on July 13 at 3 p.m. to expand the awareness programme. The departments concerned should submit weekly reports on the progress of the epidemic prevention programmes to the District Medical Officer. Ms. Raje asked the officials to maintain constant vigil in the efficient management and disposal of waste and inspections of hotels. With epidemics like A (H1N1) Influenza and dengue fever reported in the district, a decision was taken to intensify mosquito eradication programmes. Fogging, spraying, destruction of breeding grounds of mosquitoes and waste disposal would be undertaken in a more efficient manner. The District Medical Officer explained the preventive programmes against epidemics being undertaken in the district. The homeo and Ayurveda departments were also conducting medical camps and awareness programmes on prevention of outbreak of epidemics. Those with symptoms like cold, cough, and fever could be suspected of A (H1N1) influenza and should seek immediate medical attention. Children, the aged, heart patients, asthma patients and HIV AIDS-affected should take extra care since chances are that A (H1N1) influenza could turn serious if they are infected. People have been advised to avoid contact with those suffering from fever as far as possible. Pregnant women should seek medical attention within two days if the symptoms persist. Argoya Kerala district programme manager K.V. Beena, Homeo District Medical Officer in-charge Sukumaran and district-level officials of various departments attended the meeting.