A trust has been formed for Orphan Vulnerable Children (OVC) for the benefit of the children affected by HIV/AIDS throughout the State to ensure rehabilitation and relief measures to them. The sum of Rs. 5 crore had been sanctioned for the trust in 2009 as the fixed deposit, and steps had been taken to mobilise more fund for the trust. Flagging off a cycle-rally at Agricultural Products Producers and Traders' Association (APPTA) Market in Nagercoil on Friday, the project director of Tamil Nadu State AIDS control society, Amudha, said that the rally would pass through Tirunelveli, Kovilpatti, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Manapparai, Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Chengalpattu and reach Chennai on December 1, World AIDs day. The main aim of this rally was to create awareness among the people of involving persons affected by HIV/AIDS particularly the children in the mainstream by community participation. The Government was extending welfare measures to 1,595 children including education assistance, nutritious food and other essential items to them in different parts of the State. More than1.6 lakh people in different parts of the State were affected with HIV/AIDS. The Government was implementing various measures for the benefit of these people, the Project Director said. Collector Rajendra Ratnoo said that the district administration had already taken necessary steps to ensure the welfare of HIV/AIDS affected persons in the district. There were as many as 1,617 HIV affected persons including 37 children. They were being given treatment in the Anti-retro Viral Therapy Centre in Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital. Relief and welfare measures were also given to the affected persons, said the Collector. The programme was jointly organised by Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society and AIDS Prevention and Control Project (APAC) to create awareness among the community. The main objectives were to develop nutrition and health study of the affected children below 6 years, creating concrete structure to enhance community-based activities, decrease infant mortality rate, malnutrition, health hazards and school dropouts, to ensure good cooperation with schools, primary health centres and hospitals and to improve the status of childcare and hygiene among women through nutrition and health education, said Director of Centre for Social Reconstruction, T. Ram Kumar. The district supervisor of TANSAC, V. Shanakar Raj, said more than 150 volunteers of various non-governmental organisations participated in the cycle rally. Various cultural programmes were organised throughout the district to create awareness of evils of the killer disease. Member of Lok Sabha J. Helen Davidson, Deputy Director for Health M. Madusoodhanan, district programme manager Stella Jennet participated in the function.