A beauty pageant organised at a meeting of transgenders in Salem. Savitha (centre) from Kerala was adjudged "Miss India".   | Photo Credit:  R. Ilangovan SALEM: transgenders from across the country have decided to embrace the ‘Salem Model' that has transformed many of them here into successful entrepreneurs and ensured them the elusive economic empowerment and dignity. transgenders from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, New Delhi, Maharashtra and Orissa congregated here for a three-day ‘Sangamam' recently to adopt the ‘Salem Model' proposed by the Tamil Nadu Thaivizhuthugal Kootamaippu, which is working among transgenders here. Economic empowerment with social responsibility has made transgenders in Salem greatly liked by their counterparts in neighbouring states. Idly shops ‘Menmai' in Salem have become a roaring success. “Now we have decided to start beauty boutiques, saree shops and petty shops to improve their livelihood,” said Federation Director Dr. R. Lakshmi Bai. This, she said, would help them become part of society with little effort. “That was the distant past when we led a life of no meaning. Now we have emerged as a peer group among other transgenders who wanted to know and follow the success story of ours,” said Priya of Bangalore. Policy makers in Tamil Nadu have started efforts to mainstream them through welfare schemes, micro credit and welfare board. “Once non-entities on government records, we are now provided identity cards and ration cards. Bank loans are easily available. Tamil Nadu Government has even proposed a group housing scheme for us,” said M. Sangitha of Tamil Nadu. She said that the days when house owners refused to rent out houses to them are gone. It was also a time when they were forced to seek refuge in bus stands, railway stations and shandies leading to exploitations. The dignified life they are now leading in Salem has drawn attention of transgenders from other states. Some 3,000 of them have pledged their eyes and have participated in awareness campaigns on HIV/AIDs, cervical cancer among poor rural women and female infanticide and education. The three-day meeting showcased their inherent talents and made them aware of global warming and health problems. The meeting called for a positive behavioural change among transgenders at the national level. The meeting could raise Rs. 6 lakhs, which will be used for their welfare.