TEAM SPIRIT: Students performing a dance at an inter-collegiate competition organised at Yadava College.    The Department of Computer Science of Yadava College conducted ‘FINESTRA 2K10,' an inter-collegiate meet in which students from 40 colleges participated in various cultural competitions and those related to computer applications. It was inaugurated by M. D. Muthukumar, CEO, Invictus Technology. The correspondent, K. P. Navaneetha Krishnan, addressed the students. The Principal, P. Rengan, presided over the inaugural session. G. Marimuthu, Head, Department of Computer Science, welcomed the participants. S. Saravana Pandian, Lecturer, proposed a vote of thanks. The winners' shield was awarded to Sri Nagalakshmi Ammal College of Science, Pappanyakkampatti. Standard Fireworks Rajaratnam College for Women, Sivakasi, was placed second. A road safety camp organised by the Environmental Awareness Club and World University Service Club of Nadar Mahajana Sangam S. Vellaichamy Nadar College was inaugurated by M. Manoharan, Superintendent of Police, Madurai Rural. He spoke about the need to follow traffic rules in order to ensure that the roads remained accident-free. The Principal, S. Asokan, presided. The Red Ribbon Club of the college conducted an interactive session on AIDS awareness in which A. Palanichamy, District Manager, Red Ribbon Clubs, explained how the human immuno virus spread among human beings. S. N. Jeyabalan of Government Hospital, Tirupparankundram, spoke about the impact of HIV infection on humans. The correspondent, P. Mahendravel, presided. P. Murali proposed a vote of thanks. A lecture on ‘Creative Writing' by V. Jeyapaul Sathiasaran of Vickram College of Engineering was organised by the Department of English. Prof. Jeyapaul, in his speech, touched upon dialogue writing, report writing, note making and scanning a passage. R. Mahalakshmi welcomed the gathering. M. Karthikai Selvi proposed a vote of thanks. The P.G. and Research Department of Zoology of Lady Doak College conducted a training programme in laboratory techniques for biology teachers of schools in and around Madurai with the objectives of enhancing their deliverable capacity. It was inaugurated by Prema Michael, former Principal. W. Isabel, Head, Department of Zoology, welcomed the gathering. Priscilla proposed a vote of thanks. The English Association of Thiagarajar College organised a lecture on ‘New Literatures in English' by Padma Srinivasan, former Professor of English, Madurai Kamaraj University. She focused on Margaret Atwood's works and highlighted the presence of Indian philosophical overtones in them. S. Rajeswari, vice-president, English Association, welcomed the gathering. R. Raja Govindasamy, Principal, presided over. B. Shalini proposed a vote of thanks. The Indian based Neutrino Observatory, which was planned in Theni district, would be a world class mega laboratory and the first of its kind in India, said D. Indumathi of Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, while speaking at a seminar at Saraswathi Narayanan College. She said that the neutrinos were fundamental particles hitting the earth in billions whose mass was million times lesser than electrons and hence their capturing needed a cavern below one km of the rock. The capture of neutrinos would unravel some mysteries about the universe and have several spin offs of immense benefit to the people. The seminar was chaired by N.K. Jeyadevan, Principal-in-charge. P. Rajamanickam welcomed the gathering. M. Muthiah proposed a vote of thanks. The inaugural meeting of PG Physics Association of Sourashtra College featured a lecture on ‘Introduction to Photo Acoustics' by A. K. Balasubramanian, Associate Professor. M. Krishnan, Head, Department of PG Physics, welcomed the gathering. The Head of UG Department of Physics, R. Kesavan, explained how listening skill was important for students. The Principal, R.L. Ramnath, presided. S.S. Saravanakumar proposed a vote of thanks. The Department of Computer Science and Information Technology of P. K. N. Arts and Science College, Tirumangalam, conducted a seminar on ‘Humans and technology' with the objective of enriching the technical knowledge of students. It was inaugurated by K. Rajendran of Australia. V. Issakkirajan, head of the department, welcomed the participants. J. Mahatman Rao, Principal, presided. V. Pandiselvi, Head, Department of BCA, proposed a vote of thanks. G. Mariappan, Traffic Inspector, delivered a lecture on ‘Traffic signals' at an awareness programme organised for students of the college. M. Vijayakumar, Motor Vehicle Inspector, explained the importance of following traffic rules and signals. P. Seeni Durai suggested tips for safe driving. N. Selvalakshmi, Head, Department of B.Com. (CA), welcomed the gathering. B. Muniyasekar of Ramajeyam Driving School proposed a vote of thanks.