B. Chandrashekhar HYDERABAD: In spite of attempts over the last 20 years to create awareness on containing the spread and prevention of incidence of HIV and AIDS, about half of an estimated 5.2 lakh people in the State living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIVs) do not know the present status of their disease. This was stated by the authorities of AP State AIDS Control Society (APSACS). The PLHIVs with ignorance have become the drivers of spread of the disease, as they have neither stopped participating in sexual activities nor using any safety measures, due to lack of risk perception. Project Director of APSACS R.V. Chandravadan told The Hindu on Monday that though they had identified about 3.5 lakh PLHIVs, only about 2.5 lakh of them were registered with Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART) centres for regular treatment. Only about 66,000 of the registered positives were on medication of ARTs, he stated. A massive information, education and communication campaign to sensitise people, particularly PLHIVs, was being planned later this month at a cost of Rs.10 crore. He claimed that general awareness, among public in the State on HIV and AIDS was, however, 96 per cent, though it was mostly superficial. Rise in prevalence Prevalence of HIV among high risk groups like sex workers, homosexuals and intravenous drug users was increasing at a high rate, consultant of National Rural Health Mission in APSACS Ch. Prabhakar said. Mapping of the high risk groups during December 2009-February 2010 in 210 towns, except Hyderabad, had put the prevalence at 45,000 out of 1.5 lakh. About 80 pc of female sex workers were located in Krishna, Kurnool, Guntur, East Godavari, Adilabad, Visakhapatnam, Prakasam, Khammam, Mahabubnagar and Nellore districts, while 20 per cent of homosexuals were in Karimnagar, Kurnool, Chittoor, Anantapur, Khammam and Guntur. The number could be higher if the rural areas were included. Tests conducted on inmates of 18 prisons in the State during June 2009-March 2010 indicated that one out of every 200 prisoners were HIV positive. Of the 48,016 inmates, 242 were found to be HIV positive, Mr. Prabhakar stated.