Royal walkabout: Blackbuck PHOTO: SHIVKUMAR pUSHPAKAR    Every year, the first seven days of October, is when Wildlife Week is celebrated all over India. Let us look at the wild wealth that Andhra Pradesh has. Our State has an abundance of natural wealth, which is spread out over three distinct zones: the Eastern Ghats, the Deccan Plateau and thelong coast line. There are 22 wildlife sanctuaries and five national Parks in Andhra Pradesh, which are home to many endangered species, and many endemic species of wild flora and fauna. “Almost all the wild animals found in the state come under the endangered species list,” says Anuradha Vinodh, Education Officer of the Wildlife Education and Extension Wing, which comes under the Curator of National Parks, Forest Department, AP. “Every Sanctuary and National Park in the State have some unique species of wildlife.” The faunal diversity includes mammals like the tiger, panther, wolf, sloth bear, gaur, Nilgai, Chinkara and Chowsingha. There are a number of birds like the endangered Jerdon's Courser, the White backed Vulture, the Great Indian Bustard, the Lesser Florican, Pelicans, Flamingoes and the Grey Hornbill. The endangered and rare reptilians include the Salt water crocodile, the Marsh crocodile, the Golden Gecko, the Monitor Lizard and the Saw Scaled Viper, reports a hand book published by the Andhra Pradesh Forest Department. How many of us know that the State animal of Andhra Pradesh is the Black Buck? An endangered species of antelope, the Black Buck is known as   in Hindi and   in Telugu. Long ago, the blackbuck was found roaming fearlessly in fields and grasslands, close to human habitation. However, a steep decline in Black Buck population was noticed. Fortunately the Forest Department got into action and they have managed to save this beautiful animal from extinction. According to A Shankaran, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Surveillance Cell, “The Pranahita Wildlife Sanctuary in Adilabad and the Mahaveer Harina Vanasthali National Park outside Hyderabad, are the two protected areas in the State where Black Buck are found. This animal does not limit itself to the sanctuary boundaries and very often they are found outside, moving around in the fields.” In India the population of Black buck has declined due to “heavy poaching and loss of ideal habitat,” adds Mr Shankaran. The Andhra Pradesh Forest Department is doing a lot to protect our wildlife. Educating our children about our natural wealth is one of the prime initiatives taken on by them. A Wildlife Education and Extension Wing has been set up under the Curator of National Parks. As part of the education programme one day camps for schoolchildren are held in the National Parks on the city outskirts. “We take them on a walk into the wild and show them slide shows on animals, plants and reptiles. We visit schools and conduct lecture- demonstrations for the children there also. Moreover, we have an informative, quarterly magazine called  , which is sent to schools for their libraries, free of cost,” says Ms Anuradha.