 This reporter did not have it as easy. This man was trying to park near the accident site when had to put up with the business end of the infamous police lathi. Frustrated with the onslaught of rubbernecks who had overwhelmed the space outside the building, the stressed out policeman asked the reporter to leave, not in words but in stern action.  When a major story breaks, the job of a journalist — be it a reporter or photographer — is to get the story and the image as fast as possible. This photojournalist reached Carlton Towers on Tuesday and found that the other wing was not cordoned off. With his backpack slung on the shoulder, it was easy to pass off as one of the employees. Sneaking through the dark passages was easy and it was only while taking pictures from the terrace that a security guard collared him. But the images were safe in the camera and off it was back to the paper even as his counterparts were straining at the bit at the building’s entrance. Sometimes, taking the road less travelled does pay off.  Most statues of B.R. Ambedkar are found with his right arm raised and index finger pointing ahead. The one in front of the Vidhana Soudha in Bangalore seeks to convey a message, pointed out Tipu Sultan United Front President Sardar Ahmed Khuraishi. Participating in a Round Table on the proposed Anti-Cow Slaughter Bill to be tabled in the Legislature session, Mr. Khuraishi said there is significance in Dr. Ambedkar pointing his finger towards the seat of power. “Dr. Ambedkar, who helped write the Constitution, now wants the people of the State to throw out the corrupt people inside the Vidhana Soudha,” he said even as he was arguing against the introduction of the Bill, which, he said, would deprive Muslims and Dalits their food rights.  The audience watching Motley’s production of Samuel Beckett’s classic Waiting for Godot at Chowdiah Hall last weekend expected Absurdist Theatre but were not quite prepared for the absurdity of the scene towards the end of Act One. Enter Stage Left: Young woman in dun kameez and yellow salwar. Woman speaks of cars blocking gate of house. “We gave the numbers; we have been waiting for one hour.” Enter bearded man, also Stage Left, saying: “You are all educated [people], no, no, you should not behave like this.” Stunned silence. Naseeruddin Shah announces that the show is over and exits, followed by Benjamin Gilani, Akash Khurana and Ranjit Hooda. It turned out that the aggrieved family lived next door and were regularly troubled by irresponsible car owners. Gilani announced that although the actors were “shaken” by this unprecedented interruption, the show would continue in another five minutes. The audience clapped while the curtain was closed. They clapped again when the offending car numbers were announced in the manner of a lucky draw. When the curtain was drawn they clapped so long and loud that it caused Shah to momentarily forget his lines. He and Gilani adlibbed brilliantly and got swiftly back on track. After the performance, Shah spoke of the desecration of the “sacred” space but said he admired the woman’s “courage” to barge in. “I think she wants to be an actor,” he joked, urging the audience to give her a round of applause. Which they did, obligingly.  After the newspapers on Tuesday carried reports on the appointment of former Shimoga MP Ayanur Manjunath as the State BJP spokesperson, journalists and politicians started receiving a funny SMS. It read: “Mr. Ayanur Manjunath, the new spokesperson, is also the senior smokesperson of the BJP.” Incidentally, Mr. Manjunath is among the few senior BJP leaders who are “known smokers”. M.T. SHIVA KUMAR, K. MURALI KUMAR, LAIQH A. KHAN AND K.V. SUBRAMANYA