Students of Sri Lathangi Vidhya Mandir Matric. Hr. Sec. School, Pollachi, won prizes at the International Yoga Competition. A release said by winning prizes at the event, the students got selected for the World Yoga Championship. S. Raja Pandi and M. Tharun won gold medals at the 12-15 year Artistic Yoga Pair event. K.R. Sangavi and A. Suvaathi won silver medals at Rhythmic Yoga Pair event. The boys walked away with bronze in the aforementioned event. Students of PSBB Millennium School donated notebooks to class six, seven and eight students of Somayampalayam Government School on the eve of ‘Joy of Giving Day'. A release said Rukmani Motilal, academic advisor and Hemalatha Seshadri, head mistress, accompanied the students. My World – Pre School celebrated Children's Day. A release said children attended school dressed as national leaders and gods. A photography session was organised to make it a memorable one. The teachers used the opportunity to highlight the care and concern Nehru had for children. Sweets were distributed towards the end of the event. As part of Children's Day celebrations, Camford International School organised a fire fighting drill. A release said the management taught the children the use of fire fighters and the various types of fire accidents. Sri Ramakrishna Matric. Hr. Sec. School recently celebrated Children's Day. A release said the school also organised the British Council's ‘International School Award Projects Exhibition.' Ally V. Subramanian, district governor, Alliance Club International, presided over the function. S. Ranganathan, secretary, organised the event. Hindustan Matriculation and Higher Secondary School recently celebrated Nutrition Day. Priya Bathish, joint secretary of the school, inaugurated the function. A release said the school organised the function to stress the side effects of junk food. Vidya Vikasini Nursery School recently conducted Kids Expo 2010. A release said “Nature And How To Use Nature's Energy For Better Living' was the theme of the event. T.V. Sekharan Memorial Matriculation Higher Secondary School recently conducted AIDS awareness programme. A release said S. Pramila, assistant surgeon, was the chief guest. The school conducted drawing, essay writing and elocution competitions to mark the awareness programme. Sri Natya Nikethan School of Bharatnatyam recently organised the first ‘Salangai Puja'. S. Gurumurthy, a connoisseur of Indian Arts, was the chief guest, said a release from the school. Vanitha Mohan, Trustee, Siruthuli spoke on the occasion.