Co-convener of AP Legislators' Forum on HIV and AIDS Christine Lazarus pinning the red ribbon to the collar of the convener S. Sailajanath at a meeting in the city on Tuesday.    Speakers at a meeting of elected representatives on HIV situation in Visakhapatnam district, organised by the AP Legislators Forum on HIV and AIDS (APLFA), stressed the importance of awareness on AIDS and to spread the message of AIDS prevention for the benefit of society. APLFA Convener and Government Whip S. Sailajanath traced the genesis of the forum and the need for collective efforts to eradicate AIDS. He recalled a few incidents in which he was witness to patients dying in his constituency and the trauma it had left on the children of such patients. He felt that small but concerted efforts could go a long way in tackling the disease. He also said elected representatives as policy makers could contribute a lot to create awareness. Co-Convener of APLFA and MLA Christine Lazarus spoke on the burden of the disease on women. She advised women to stop being shy and seek prompt medical attention whenever they needed. She underlined the need for a complete medical checkup for women after they crossed the age of 35. She spoke on the importance of reaching out to all sections of people and to impress upon them the need to adopt safe sexual practices. She said the legislators were determined to make a difference to society. Project Director of AP State AIDS Control Society R.V. Chandravadan said that there were an estimated five lakh AIDS patients in the State of whom four lakhs had been identified so far. The number of high-risk groups was also more in the State. This was due to the high rate of migration from other states in search of employment. He briefed about the programmes being undertaken for eradication of the disease. Deputy Director of STI JVDS Prasad impressed upon the participants not to forget that the disease could affect anybody irrespective of their position or status in society and hence there was every need to take adequate safeguards. One simple solution was observing self restraint and taking care not to infect others after attack of the disease.