Well, you know that roses are red, violets are blue, the grass is green and so on… But there's a new list of values attached to colours that the children at Leo Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Anna Nagar, were taught to relate to at the Colour Fest, organised for the first time in the school. The brain child of headmistress Hepzibah Solomon, the fest apart from teaching the kindergarten students the various colours, also served well to teach older students and parents the importance of peace, fight against terrorism , HIV/AIDS awareness, conservation of natural resources and protection of animals. Kick-starting the day was a peace rally that was flagged off by S. Rajasekaran, Commandent, TSP, Superintendent of Police. Hoards of students, dressed in white uniforms (white for peace), assembled at the Thirumangalam junction garnering attention from the passers-by. Holding placards that advocated peace over war, the students marched along the entire stretch of the road till their school, briefly accompanied by their school band. The venue of the fest, the school ground, was dotted with colourful tents. On closer inspection, it was noticed that each of the eight tents represented a colour and the value attached to it: Green for environment; orange for health and hygiene; red for HIV awareness and blood donation; blue for patience; yellow for knowledge; purple for mystery and dignity; pink for love and beauty and finally white for peace. Each tent had kindergarten students dressed up in tune with the theme of their tent — they were vegetables, fruits, dolls, eminent personalities and more. Some tents had extensions of their theme by way of allied activities like gifting of free saplings, counselling session with a nutritionist, blood donation camps, yoga demonstrations, magic show and talks by people from Blue Cross. Also present at the inauguration were M. Pichai, Joint Director of Matriculation Schools, P.C.R. Suresh, Senior Vice President of Standard Chartered Bank and actor Arun Vijay. Despite mild showers, the show did go on and successfully too.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 12:08:27 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Myriad-of-hues/article15912522.ece   © The Hindu 