A group of foreign girl students, who are on an exposure visit in India, interact with K.V. Vishnu Raju, Chairman, Sri Vishnu Educational Society, at a programme in Bhimavaram on Sunday. — Photo: A.V.G. Prasad    S.V.U.M. Prasad, Director of Pharmacy Courses, JNTU-Kakinada, on Sunday disclosed that the university entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Florida university for search, involving herbal drugs. Speaking at a career guidance programme on the campus of Sri Vishnu Educational Institutes here, Mr. Prasad said the research was likely to take off on the university campus in the next few days since an expert from Florida University was expected to come down to JNTU-K for the purpose shortly. A drug developed by an indigenous researcher basing on a herbal plant available in Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district was claimed to be having the properties against HIV and it was sent to Florida University for cross-checking by the expert scientists. Although it proved to be wrong, the drug was found to be having anti-cancer properties in course of preliminary investigations.This necessitated further research on this particular aspect, warranting a joint collaboration between Florida University and JNTU-K, Mr. Prasad explained. Saying that a huge amount of Rs 3,500 crore was available with the Government of India for research in the field of medical sciences, he highlighted the need to accelerate the research process particularly in the field of herbal medicine by making use of funds. K.V. Vishnu Raju, Chairman of Sri Vishnu Educational Society, exhorted the students who wanted to pursue technical and medical education to rise to the occasion at times of synergy of different branches such as biology, chemistry and genetics with engineering and engineering with biology. He saw bright prospects in the engineering and healthcare in the next 15 years. T.V.S.G. Muralikrishna, a career guidance expert from JNTU-Kakinada, observed that the trend was shifting in favour of civil engineering from computer sciences at a faster pace world over and the triple disciplines of environment, engineering and education would continue to have a sway over the world for the next 50 years. More than 1,000 students seeking admission in engineering, medical and dental courses from different parts of descended on the Sri Vishnu Educational Society campus for their career counselling.