Ananya Dutta KOLKATA: Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) is going to provide free education to sex workers and their children exempting examination fees and providing them with books and instructors with the intention of empowering them to return to mainstream society. IGNOU will provide study material and instructors to about 50 candidates at the centre in Sonagachi, the city's most prominent red-light district. The centre was initially set up in 2008 with a capacity of six candidates who had to bear the cost of their own education. Now the cost of their education will be borne by IGNOU, said Banshibadan Chattopadhyay, the IGNOU co-ordinator for the Sonagachi centre. “We are offering them six courses. Apart from the option to pursue their B.A. and B.Com, certificate courses in child development, counselling, women empowerment, and health management are also being offered,” Mr. Chattopadhyay added. The biggest challenge that is faced by the people of this community is the high dropout ratio. Many sex workers labour to try and educate their children but most children leave their education midway, said Shombhu Das, the son of a sex worker who dropped out of school after studying up to Class VIII. Mr. Das now works for the Durbaar Mahila Samannya Samity (DMSS), a Kolkata-based NGO that works towards empowerment of sex workers in West Bengal. He heads the education department of the NGO after having completed his Bachelor Preparatory Programme, the equivalent of a higher secondary course from IGNOU. “Most of the courses on offer are employment-oriented. For example I hope to pursue the course on HIV programme, which will help me find work in Community Based Organisations,” he said. “Currently one problem that we face is the medium of instruction. Most of us would prefer to study in Bengali which IGNOU does not offer,” he added. DMSS is going to approach the West Bengal-based open university, Rabindra Mukta Vishvavidyalaya, to resolve the problem of the language barrier. But the university is neither offering the fee exemption nor has the same recognition as IGNOU, Mr. Das said.