time to act: Performing artistes cheering a participant at N.Sangenthi near Pullambadi.    In a novel attempt to promote awareness of HIV/AIDS through traditional sports and entertainment, five teams under the umbrella of ‘Oorkozhi Kalai Valar Maiyam' recently toured the rural heartland of Tiruchi and Namakkal districts. Targeted at rural youth, particularly school and college dropouts, the project by Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS), as part of the ‘Ilavatam 2010' campaign, covered 500 villages, driving home the message that staying away from AIDS is vital for staying young and healthy. According to A..Gopikrishnan, Director of ‘Oorkozhi', his group was one of the five units that covered around 2,500 villages in 10 districts - Coimbatore, Erode, Madurai, Theni, Salem, Dharmapuri, Vellore, Krishnagiri, Namakkal and Tiruchi - with the highest HIV prevalence in the state. Incidentally, this was TANSACS's first initiative to reach out to the youth. The 100-member teams comprising lawyers, computer engineers and teachers visited the hamlets in brightly painted vans, emblazoned with the words, ‘Ilavattam Kodikattum'. Deeming that the best way to reach out to youth is entertainment, their carefully orchestrated performances are sugar-coated pills, with a serious undercurrent. “We begin by creating a festive atmosphere. Through folksy songs and ‘thappattam,' we get the crowd involved before delivering the message,” revealed Stephen, team leader of Udhayanila, one of the teams. The ‘thappattam' is an obvious crowd-puller and as the drum beats grow frenzied, the crowd swells and curious passers-by become rooted to the spot, drinking in the evening's entertainment. The team sends out the message with a punch through a street play. With the focus on the spread of AIDS through sexual transmission, the performance touches upon abstinence and consequences of promiscuity. By encouraging youth to talk about HIV without inhibitions, they also advocate the use of condoms in a light-hearted manner. The team also offers the list of hospitals for consultation. The awareness programme also acts as double-edged sword by giving a boost to traditional sports and games such as ‘Uriyadi,' tug-of-war and skipping. “The competitions that are a test of strength and fitness, underline the fact that AIDS deprives youth of health and physical strength,” says Mr.Gopikrishnan, highlighting the importance of the events. ‘Ilavatam 2010'also reached out to college youth through university and district level sporting and cultural competitions.