The role of youth in the country's development was stressed by speakers at the District Youth Convention and Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK) Sangathan Foundation Day organised by NYK, Vellore district, at its office here on Sunday. Issues concerning self-employment opportunities for youth and women, health and population control were also discussed on the occasion. Rufus Manicadoss, head of the department of history and National Service Scheme programme officer of Voorhees College said that out of the total population of India, that is, 118 crore, youth accounted for 54 crore, which pointed to their great potential. In the context of the rapid spread of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), the youth have to practise self-discipline and self-control in order to prevent the spread of the virus and the disease. Loganathan, Mass Information and Education Officer, said that while the population of India was 118 crore, that of Tamil Nadu was 6.8 crore and Vellore district 40 lakh. About 58,000 children were born every year in Vellore district. The youth potential is indeed a plus point for the country today since it helped generate human resources pool necessary for the development of the country, but if the population went on increasing without any check, it would lead to severe unemployment of the youth in future. This might also force the unemployed youth to take to criminal activities to eke out their livelihood as in the case of Somalia. “So we have to control the population growth by adopting the one-child norm.” Spread of HIV/AIDS can be prevented only through practice of safe sex since unsafe sex accounted for 98 per cent of the cases, he said. A. Kennedy, District Project Officer, Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project, stressed the need to be aware of the health issues and follow self-hygienic practices and practices conducive to good health in order to avoid diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and A (H1N1). About 20 to 30 years ago, people used to get heart attacks only after the age of 50. But today, youth in the age group of 20 to 30 get heart attacks owing to change in lifestyle marked by lack of physical exercise. He wanted youth to check their blood sugar level regularly in order to detect diabetes early and take remedial steps. He especially appealed to the youth to wear helmets while riding two-wheelers to avoid fatal head injuries in road accidents. People should cooperate to achieve 100 per cent immunisation against vaccine-preventable diseases, he said. K. Ravi, Project Manager, District Industries Centre (DIC), Vellore, said that the DIC implemented the Prime Minister's Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) which was aimed at providing self-employment opportunities to the youth which, besides enabling them to get self-employed, generated employment for others. The DIC advised the youth on the economic feasibility of various projects and enabled them to prepare project reports and start micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Out of the 20 blocks in Vellore district, 12 were declared as industrially backward, and the government provided 15 per cent subsidy on purchase of machinery and 20 per cent power subsidy for three years for MSMEs to be set up in these backward blocks. Twenty-five per cent subsidy is given for adoption of environment-friendly technology and an additional five per cent subsidy for women entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs could do online registration of MSMEs by logging on to www.msmeonline.tn.gov.in. Mr. Ravi said that the DIC conducted motivation camps for entrepreneurs in order to clarify their doubts on starting ventures under the PMEGP and help them select their projects based on the potential in the area in which they wanted to set up MSMEs. Sundaresan, superintendent, District Social Welfare Office, Vellore, explained the various forms of assistance to the poor such as Moovalur Ramamirtham Ammayar Memorial Marriage Assistance Scheme, Anjugam Ammayar Memorial Marriage Assistance Scheme, E.V.R. Maniyammai Memorial Widow's Daughters Marriage Assistance Scheme, Dr. Dharmambal Memorial Widow Remarriage Assistance Scheme, Mother Teresa Memorial Destitute Women's Marriage Assistance Scheme, and the Sivagami Ammayar Memorial Girl Child Protection Scheme, and the procedures to be followed to avail of the schemes. A.R. Vijaya Rao, District Youth Coordinator, NYK, Vellore said that the NYK would be imparting computer training and social awareness to 110 youth from November 22 to 25. Interested persons could provide the bio-data to the NYK office. Besides, the NYK would be conducting a National Integration Camp for the youth in six States here in December/January. The Kendra also provided counselling to youth on career development, she said. Later, Ms. Rao distributed sports materials to about 125 youth clubs in Vellore district.