Death is like fear of the unknown. But not for the children infected with Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), who are pushed into jaws of death for no fault of theirs. And worse, they are probably aware how with each passing day, they get nearer to death . Preventing HIV infection is possible. But if it fails, life prolonging treatment should at least be made available and relieve these children of the impact of HIV and AIDS on them. But lack of necessary investment, resources, anti-retroviral drugs and stigma and discrimination, wreak havoc forcing these innocent minds into continued suffering. To address such issues, Neyam – a programme for children infected and affected by AIDS in Madurai was launched last weekend. It is a joint venture of TVS school under Children Affected by AIDS Committee (CABA) project in partnership with District Administration, District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU), Madurai. As many as 250 children living and affected by HIV from Melur, Thirumangalam, Usilampatti, Solavandhan and Madurai were selected to be part of the CABA Project, supported by National AIDS Control Organisation and implemented by District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit, Madurai. TVS school has agreed to provide essential services to children including like health and medical care, nutritional, psychological, educational and legal support, alternative care and economical strengthening. Children who have lost their parents to AIDS are either under the supervision of their grandparents or relatives. They do not get proper education and nutrition. Neyam aims to rope in such affected children under its wings. The selected children from five Taluks have been linked to ‘Neyam' - a year long programme. The children, aged between six and 17 years, will be divided into 10 batches of 25 children each and brought together on second Sunday of every month. TVS school will arrange for transportation. The project includes a comprehensive skill building programme with activities like painting, dance, , drama, team games, learning musical instruments and physical exercise under supervision of 10 resource persons. A team of five paediatricians including dentists will conduct thorough medical check- up besides maintaining separate medical file for every child. The District Collector and Chairman of CABA Committee, C.Kamaraj, said the administration is keen on ensuring the rights of children. Madurai district is one of the 10 districts in the country to implement CABA The project has so far identified 1,369 children infected and affected by HIV. Of them, 324 children are receiving free ART drugs at Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital, the Collector added.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 2:08:45 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/society/For-their-sake/article15695144.ece   © The Hindu 