Salem Vinayaka Mission's Annapoorana College of Nursing organised a National level seminar on ‘Challenges to Nursing Profession'. (right) Management Association ‘ACUMEN '10' was inaugurated at Jayalakshmi Institute of Technology, Thoppur, Dharmapuri district. – Photos: Special Arrangement    Vinayaka Mission's Annapoorna College of Nursing, Salem, organised a National level seminar on ‘Strengthening evidence-based Nursing practice – a challenge to nursing profession,' on its premises. Madam Chancellor of Vinayaka Mission University Annapoorani Shanmugasundaram inaugurated the seminar in which 219 delegates from seven States took part. University Registrar Y.Abraham was the chief guest. Principal Lasxmi Rana, faculty V. Selvanayaki and others spoke. Scientific sessions were organised and a souvenir was released. Management Association, ACUMEN '10, was inaugurated at Jayalakshmi Institute of Technology, Thoppur, Dharmapuri district, recently. Senthilkumar, HoD, Management Studies, welcomed. Principal S.Raghunathan delivered the key-note address. He stressed the importance of having the winning edge and also explained the leadership qualities. Chairman C. Subramanian in his presidential address explained the infrastructure availability of the college and the steps taken by the college for the students' improvement. Chief guest V.Nagarajan, Senior Deputy General Manager, Human Resources of TTK Prestige Ltd., Hosur, inaugurated the association. He explained the importance of communication skills and various soft skills needed in an organisation. Mr. Nagarajan told the students how to face the interviews and about the current Human Resource practices. He also distributed prizes to students who won several intercollegiate competitions. The Kavery Engineering College, Mecheri, near Salem, was recognised as the Research Centre for Computer Science and Engineering from the Academic year 2010-11 by the Anna University of Technology, Coimbatore. Chairman A.Anbalagan said that his lifetime goal was to make it a world renowned research centre. He thanked Principal, Dean and staff members for the achievement. Dean S.Obli appreciated the faculty and said that the institution was stepping forward to become a deemed university.Principal V.Venkatachalam said researches based on Computer Science and Information Technology would be carried out in the centre and the students would be benefited by conducting more international conferences in the institution. Rajaji Institute of Technology, Salem, conducted a UNICEF-sponsored HIV / AIDS awareness programme for students. The programme was arranged by UNICEF and Health Department of Salem since HIV / AIDS prevalence is high in Salem. In the presence of M.V. Rengarajan, College Chairman and Dr. J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director, Health Services, Salem, Dr. Shyamla, Training Coordinator, organised the programme on the campus. Dr. Eswaran, Medical Officer of Nainampatty Primary Health Centre, Gopal, ICTC counsellor and V. Ramakrishnan, Programme Officer, delivered lectures on anaemia, its causes, prevention and treatment, the prevention and treatment of HIV/ AIDS and Life Skills Development and Leadership. (R. Ilangovan in Salem)