R.V. Chandravadan    All the government general and district headquarters hospitals in the State will have care and support wards for people living with HIV/AIDS soon. Disclosing this during his two-day visit to the district which ended on Friday evening, AP State AIDS Control Society Project Director R.V. Chandravadan said as per GO Ms. No. 24 issued on January 24, 2005, unutilised wards in the hospitals would be converted into care and support wards for the PLHA. During his visit, he inaugurated a special ward for PLHA at King George Hospital and spent sometime at the 10-bed Care and Support Centre run by Nature, an NGO, at Marripalem. He complimented the officials and NGOs in the district as Visakhapatnam bagged the top spot in the State in the implementation of care and support and target intervention programme. Mr. Chandravadan said the government had sanctioned Rs.7.2 crore for care and support services. The amount would be granted to district headquarters hospital, community care centres and those offering basic services. He said the main intention of special wards was to render better care for the patients availing anti-retroviral therapy. Those coming for treatment for the first time need hospitalisation for at least 15 days. Because of non-availability of the facilities, the patients are facing hardship. The APSACS Project Director told the officials and NGOs on the need to increase the beds of the PLHA. According to him, the epidemiological estimations state that 10 per cent of people living with HIV will suffer from AIDS. The beds required for treatment of PLHA per day is put at 9,000 to 10,000 and the availability is less than the requirement. Calling for positive approach towards PLHA, he said they needed hospitals with experienced professionals who worked with commitment. This would enable the patients to lead a qualitatively better life.He informed that adult HIV prevalence in AP had decreased from 1.10 per cent in 2004 to 1.05 per cent in 2006. Due to massive awareness programme, the number patients registered for anti retroviral therapy had gone up significantly. Dr. P. Rajendra Prasad, Joint Director, National Rural Health Mission, Dr. G. Bhagya Rao, Principal, Andhra Medical College, Dr. G. Shanta Rao, Superintendent, King George Hospital and others accompanied him during the tour.