Spreading sensitivity towards the marginalised in society in the village of Kumitthipathi    T he villagers gathered under the old peepul tree, dressed in their very best. Shushing bawling babies and chatty neighbours, they sat engrossed, as the events unfolded. December 10 was International Human Rights Day - a day of great importance for the marginalised and those lobbying for their rights. A group of human rights activists brought together by the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) had gathered them there to drive home the message of tolerance towards transgenders and those with HIV. And, who better than students to take the message forward? The village of Kumittipathi in Thirumalayampalayam panchayat was vibrant with energy as NSS volunteers from Sri Krishna College of Arts and Science led the way to root out discrimination against these communities. Joined in by representatives from NGOs and organisations such as District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit, the youngsters listed simple means of spreading the message of equality. For some 100 women from Self Help Groups of Thirumalayampalayam panchayat who had gathered there, HIV/AIDS meant little. They were also quite unaware about the problems transgenders faced to earn a living and some respect in society. They listened rapt, as representatives from these communities told them firsthand about their lives and struggles. The President of the Coimbatore Network for Positive People (CNP+), M. Somesh, said, “Life is not easy for people with HIV/AIDS. Discrimination follows them like a black cloud everywhere they go. Getting an admission in schools is near impossible for an HIV positive child. This should stop. Treat them as you'd treat any other person. A supportive shoulder can make so much of a difference,” he said. Somesh revealed that approximately 35 HIV positive persons join CNP+ every month, and that at least 10 were from places in the outskirts of the city. “Hence it is important that we educate them about the prevention and treatment options for HIV/AIDS,” he added. As the women mulled over these words, a group of students presented a street play to campaign against the discrimination of those with HIV. It was a simple and direct way to drive home the message to the village folk. Fifty-year-old Mariammal was seen fighting tears as the play ended. “I was shocked to learn that people with AIDS are treated so badly,” she said. The youngsters then put together an extempore skit about the ostracism faced by transgenders. Transgenders Sangeetha and Lakshmi from TAI Vizhudhugal, a community based organisation appealed to the audience, “We are like your siblings; it's just that we're a little different. Please, treat us with respect in public places. If a transgender woman seeks your favour, help her instead of mocking at her,” they said. The transgender women, along with the students, went around the village, sensitising its people towards their community. ‘Our hearts are always open to transgenders and those with HIV' read stickers that were pasted on the doors of homes. The women also took an oath to show their solidarity against the injustice meted out to transgenders and persons living with HIV. Veerammal, an old lady in the village said, “I've lived a closeted life all these years. From this day on, everyone is equal to me, irrespective of their gender or affliction.”