A large number of HIV affected patients are being given the second line of Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) which has high toxicity and mortality rate apart from being expensive. It is mostly the private practitioners who are putting the patients directly on the second line regimen in contravention of the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) guidelines. Following a public interest litigation, the Supreme Court has directed all private practitioners, hospitals and clinics who are providing the ART to furnish information about patients seeking treatment from them in a prescribed quarterly reporting format. The apex court has called for submission of updated information as on September 30 by October 18. The NACO too has set out clear guidelines for rational use of ART especially in the private sector. Any irrational use of ART or deviation from the national protocol will be viewed seriously as a ‘professional misconduct', it warned. Most drug companies are pushing for expensive combination of drugs, though not required. The second line of treatment cost Rs. 1 lakh per annum while the first line of treatment comes for just Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 10,000. More than 60 per cent of AIDS patients in Andhra Pradesh are accessing treatment through private practitioners who do not follow the guidelines. “We will try to wean them away to the government ART centres”, said R.V. Chandravadan, project director, APSACS. He said NACO wanted patient's financial condition to be assessed since ART was a lifelong therapy with significant economic burden. Referring all PLHA to government ART centres will help save resources for good nutrition and other family needs. This will also make them eligible for free second line ART. The State AIDS Control Societies are asked to ensure that initial ART prescriptions must be first line regimen only. The second line ART should be resorted to only in case of proven first line failure. But most private practitioners, it is said, are using a combination of first line and second line ARV leading to drug resistance among patients and transmission issues. The APSACS has communicated the NACO guidelines to the Indian Medical Council, Dental Council, Nursing Council and A.P. Private Nursing Homes Associations. Unless there is a penal provision, many feel, it is difficult to control the private practitioners.