G race is no more. Less than three months ago, I met her the first time. And I am glad of the opportunity that came by to know the amazing life story of Grace Wardell, our Metroplus Weekend personality (Full of Grace – 10 {+t} {+h} April, 2010). Grace at 102, was sitting near the window sill with the mild sunlight stoking her face. Her skin looked healthy and radiated with glow despite the wrinkles. Her perfect dressing and her warm welcome was beyond a ‘hello'. She gently kissed my palm and said, “So wonderful of you to come.” Her grace and humility touched me. As witness of two horrifying World Wars, the vastness of professional experience of the world's first woman editor from Fleet Street, was unmatchable. War to fashion, fiction to reality, politics to poetry, her repertoire was amazing. Even more was her memory, feelings, language, emotions, drawings, sketches, thoughts…the interview was a session in learning. Even though her son, Mark, did most of the talking as we did not want to tire her, she was alert correcting Mark when she differed. She was a sport during the photo session when we took her out in a wheelchair. Posing in different hats she did some silent theatrics, making faces at the camera….and everybody around said she was in her true spirits. When the article appeared, Mark informed in so many days, she joined all at the dining table. Otherwise she was mostly in bed and on liquid diet. When I met her again few weeks later, she greeted me with equal warmth and I was thrilled to see her at the dining table. For some reason, I felt good. I was inspired by her life's story -- the trials and tribulations, peaks and troughs, her writings and experiences which she narrated with flair in her unpublished memoirs, her charming looks. When Mark, sms-ed on 11 {+t} {+h} June evening – “Grace passed away this afternoon”, there was a sudden dip in my pace. I called to console him, but instead he spoke, soft and cool as ever. “She died a healthy death. She developed breathing difficulty just an hour before her final call. We all sat quietly encircling her. Somehow I did not think she would die. But her time was up and she slipped away calmly and peacefully like a sleeping baby.” Grace was a bit of a legend. People in Kodaikanal will always remember this oldest member of The English (now Kodai) Club for the work she silently did for children of widows and HIV and leprosy-infected people and other poor, needy or ailing persons, she came across ever since her arrival to the hill station in 1969. But she never talked about it. She reiterated her love for India, sunny smiles of children, women for their strong character. She never found India boring because it was always so much exciting, living and struggling and there was so much help to give. Indeed, Grace never missed to offer help whenever an occasion arose. She is remembered by all classes of people for her common touch and readiness to rise to an emergency. Recalls Mark, how she arranged for the lone van in 70s to carry an injured man fallen from eucalyptus tree, to a hospital in Madurai. Since he could not sit, ever resourceful, Grace removed a bus seat and laid out a mattress from home. Such stories galore on the lips of all those who knew, met or worked with Grace. She taught beggars and street urchins how to smile and never turned anybody away. “Groans and moans don't work,” she would tell alms seekers. No wonder, the day she passed away, her house was filled with commoners. Mark is at a loss to explain his loss. “Strange how life can change in a day because of a moment called death,” he says. “The world has lost a true woman and how lucky is the other side to finally have her back. She stayed with us for long, it was a selfless gift from her.” -- wrote a friend. Not just a benefactor, Grace was a loving mentor. She was a lover of people but a loner, who was never alone. In her death too, she was surrounded by a houseful of loving people, who draped her in a white silk saree, placed a coin like the third eye and buried her in their farm, 25-odd kms from Kodai. Mark, an Indian citizen now, walked around the grave three times as the priest cracked the clay pot to allow the water trickle. Without looking he also plunged an incense stick into the grave behind. According to her wishes, Grace was made to rest under an apple tree. Her life has been worth lived and witnessed by others. She made a difference in lives of all whom she met or befriended.