MP and president, Forum of Parliamentarians on HIV/AIDS, Oscar Fernandes speaking at the launch on Tuesday. Chief Minister V. Vaithilingam is in the picture. —   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter PUDUCHERRY: The programme for prevention of parent-to-child transmission of HIV should be intensified so that no child is born HIV positive, Member of Parliament and president of Forum of Parliamentarians on HIV/AIDS Oscar Fernandes said on Tuesday. Speaking at the launch of the Puducherry Legislators' Forum on HIV/AIDS, Mr. Fernandes said treatment for pregnant mothers to prevent transmission of HIV to newborns is a major problem. “It will be criminal if we are not able to detect HIV in pregnant women at the right time. In northeastern States, the percentage of institutional deliveries is about 12 to 20 per cent. The remaining deliveries are at home with no chance of checking if the pregnant women carry the virus or not,” he said. Noting that testing pregnant mothers on time would save children, he said, “I feel that our programme of testing pregnant women for HIV/AIDS before delivery has to be intensified. “The number of persons affected by HIV/AIDS in Puducherry may not be as projected. According to information I receive, people from States where HIV is highly prevalent, are visiting Puducherry for treatment. Tourists and people affected by HIV/AIDS coming here makes the Union Territory vulnerable. There is a need to be cautious,” he said. With awareness being the key to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS, Mr. Fernandes said, “If we control the virus, the health of the State improves. In some States in Africa, the percentage of population affected by HIV is as high as 30.” Mr. Fernandes said that the Union and State governments gear up to the need of the hour. Northeastern States have given top priority to the issue, he added. “The youth today are vulnerable and awareness has to be created in schools and colleges,” he said. Chief Minister V. Vaithilingam said that municipalities should be brought to the forum to take the message to the grass-roots level. Secretary-General of the Forum of Parliamentarians on HIV/AIDS J.D. Seelam urged all Members of Legislative Assembly and elected representatives up to the village-level to be part of the forum. Director of Health Dilip Kumar Baliga said that HIV prevalence in Puducherry had dropped from seven to eight per cent years ago to three per cent among high-risk group. “Last year, we tested 68,000 Puducherry residents in three months of which 342 tested positive, indicating a prevalence of 0.5 per cent.” Noting that there were chances for high risk behaviour among college students, he said, “We are devising ways with academic institutions to safeguard the youth. We have suggested that condoms should be made available.” Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy, MP Sudharsana Nachiappan, Members of Legislative Assembly Om Sakthi Sekar and M.A.S. Subramanian spoke.