RELIGION  Despatch of temple honours to Sri Andal Temple in Srivilliputhur, Aadi pooram festival, 10 a.m.  Sri Lalitha Sahasranamam-discourse by Radhakrishna Sastrigal, 6.15 p.m. Parayanam, Sri Lakshmi Narayana Swamy Temple, Melur Road, 6.30 p.m.  Rama Nama parayanam, Vivekananda street, 6 p.m.  Discourse on Hari Vamsa in Kannada by Sriman Yadhunandanachar, Raghavendrapuram, Srirangam, 6.30 p.m. CULTURE  L.V.Memorial concerts, vocal by Ramakrishnan Murthy, 7 p.m.  P. Balasubramanian speaks on ‘natural treatment', 6.30 p.m. GENERAL  First convocation, S. V. Raghavan, Scientific Secretary, Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to Government of India, New Delhi, delivers convocation address, K. Ponmudy, Minister for Higher Education, participates, Bharathidasan University convocation auditorium, 11 a.m.  Department of Environmental Management, N. Ramagopal of Annamalai University, speaks on ‘corporate strategy and enrvironmental protection', 2.30 p.m.; Department of Women's Studies: Workshop on ‘status of women in India', Salma, Chairperson, Tamil Nadu Social Welfare Board, speaks, 10.30 a.m.; Academic Staff College: Refresher course in life sciences, N. Ramanujam, Dean, Faculty of Science, Engineering and Technology of the University, inaugurates, K. Murugesan, Professor of University of Madras, speaks, Khajamalai campus, 11 a.m.  Inauguration of the activities of Chemistry Association by S. Arunachalam of Bharathidasan University, 12.30 p.m.  Training programme, N. Manimekalai, Director, Department of Women's Studies, Bharathidasan University, speaks, Vidivelli campus, 10 a.m.  Inauguration of first year classes, G. Madhusudhanan, deputy GM, Air Traffic Management, Tiruchi Airport, chief guest, A. Mohamed Yunus, chairman, presides, 11 a.m.  Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering Students Association, P. Baskar, application engineer, speaks , 10 a.m.; Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering: Workshop, M. S. Vinoth and Supreme Scientific, Madurai and K. Rahul of Oasis Technologies, Pune, chief guests, 10 a.m.  Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, inauguration of the activities of the Association by V. Srinivasan, Assistant Station Director of AIR, 3 p.m.  NSS unit I, seminar, V. K. Raman, principal, inaugurates, 3 p.m.  Department of Training and Placement, career development programme, S. Sivakumar, Director, Tiruchi Plus, resource person, 9.30 a.m.  Book exhibition, 10 a.m.  Department of Computer Science and Engineering and Computer Society of Indian-MAMCE chapter: Training programme on Java, M. A. Maluk Mohamed, principal, inaugurates, 5 p.m.; Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering: Workshop, A. R. Kasthuri Rangam of AK Tronics, resource person,1 p.m.;  Department of Management Studies, workshop on ‘face the future', G. Balakrishnan, former vice-principal, St. Joseph's College, resource person, 9.30 a.m.  Inauguration of the Junior Red Cross unit, G. Chandrasekaran, District Treasury Officer, chief guest, D. Kalil Rahman, headmaster, presides, 4 p.m.  B. N. Krishnasamy of Time Institute of Materials Testing, speaks on ‘quality in building construction', Hotesl Sangam, 7 p.m.  AIDS awareness programme, G. Kathiresan, Dean, TNAU Agricultural College and Research Institute, chief guest, Muthukulam, 11 a.m.  Crafts fair, Makkal Mandram, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.