K. KEERTHIVASAN Another year and another set of matches at the Chennai Open. This year saw Cilic of Croatia retaining the singles crown, while the Spanish duo Granollers and Ventura walked away with the doubles title. There was an atmosphere of anticipation and excitement in Chennai, as tennis' best players came together to fight it out for the coveted title at the Chennai Open. Fans gathered in large numbers to catch a glimpse of their favourite players. And they were not disappointed. Young players watched the pros in action and also managed to get their autographs. The matches themselves were an inspiration, encouraging budding stars to give more to the game... As Somdev Devvarman walked to the Centre court for his first round match, cries of ‘Somdev! Somdev! resonated in Chennai's Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu - tennis stadium in Nungambakkam. One has not heard so much cheering before, unless it was for Leander Paes and Mahesh Bhupathi. The gradual growth of Somdev, Yuki Bhambri and Sanam Singh has made Indian fans look up to them as those who can make a permanent mark at the world level. The harsh fact, however, is that Somdev and Yuki had to make the U.S. their base to hone their skills. “The biggest benefit of holding an ATP tournament in Chennai,” says Vijay Amritraj, former India player, “is that our players have started training harder than ever before.” The 2010 Aircel Chennai Open held this month witnessed foreign players, once again, cornering the glory. Marin Cilic of Croatia retained the singles crown, while the Spanish duo of Marcel Granollers and Santiago Ventura won the doubles title. There was disappointment in store for Indians in both the singles and doubles. Somdev, the lone hope in the singles, fought hard but couldn't match up to the quickness and powerful ground strokes of Serbia's Janko Tipsarevic and bowed out in the second round. This after he raised hopes by defeating Germany's Rainer Schuettler, World No. 110, with an impressive performance in the first round. Rohan Bopanna wasted a golden opportunity to make his singles wild card count, getting just five games from the Swiss Stanislas Wawrinka in the first round. Prakash Amritraj dug deep and won three rounds to qualify for the main draw. A tired Prakash went down tamely to Michael Russel (U.S.) in the first round. Mahesh Bhupathi and Rohan Bopanna, fabulous doubles players — they have hardly played together — could have done much better than their quarterfinal appearance. The Sanam Singh and Somdev pair looked impressive. They can be groomed to be a potential champion duo. They lost to Tipsarevic and Yen-Hsun Lu in the last four clash. At six feet and six inches, Cilic was impressive throughout the tournament. The tall and lanky player was at his best against Janko Tipsarevic in the semifinals. Serving well and hitting pinpoint groundstrokes, Cilic showed that he is indeed a player to watch out for in Grand Slams. His victory over Wawrinka in the final showed how well he had adjusted to the hot and humid weather conditions in Chennai. “The people are warm. I enjoy coming here,” said Cilic. Notwithstanding the effort and sacrifices made by the Indian players to make it big, the Chennai Open awaits an Indian to hold the winner's Trophy in singles. That would be a red letter day for India. For nearly 10 years, ‘King' Carlos ruled the hearts of Chennai fans. There isn't a player (perhaps after Boris Becker) who held the attention of tennis lovers as much as Moya did. Whenever he entered the court, fans cheered him, wildly. After his loss to Tipsarevic in the first round, which could perhaps be his last visit to the Chennai Open, Moya, the two-time champion said, “You have given me more than I can ever give back”. He further said that the last ten months had been very difficult and that the decision to opt out of a second surgery had helped him. “It is a dream to come here, to be playing, even losing,” he summed up. Gracious and accessible are words that best describe Moya. Wearing powered goggles, Tipsarevic, World ranked 35, stood out for his peculiarity. Everyone knows about the Serb's tennis. What one didn't know but got to know better as the event progressed was about Tipsarevic's opinion on tennis matters. He talked frankly to media persons and was humorous and quick with his answers. He said he felt let down by Andre Agassi's confession that he took drugs. He went on to talk about how the Serbian system had done little for the development of its tennis players. Tennis excellence has nothing to do with wealth but all to do with desire, he said. Truly, gems!