Various communities within the sexuality minorities have come together to form the Karnataka Sexuality Minorities (KSM) Forum with the objective of putting up a united fight for their demands. The KSM, which will be formally inaugurated here on Sunday, has welcomed the State Government's order on extending several facilities to the transgenders, but has demanded separate allocation in the Budget for their welfare. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, president of the forum Prabhu Biradar, vice-president Dinesh and other board members including Revati, Sanjiv, Chandni, Sham, Christiraj and State coordinator Mahesh Patil elaborated on the harassment and exploitation of the transgenders by some people and the police, and also the social stigma attached to sexuality minorities. Chandni, Prabhu Biradar and Dinesh explained the reasons for establishing the forum and how they had to suffer in the hands of anti-social elements and the police. They said although there had been changes in the laws, members of the sexual minority communities were still being ill-treated and looked down upon, and the society was yet to accept them. In the last 10 years, they have been working with various non-governmental organisations and community-based organisations. While a few of their demands had been met, the members said there was still a long way to go. Prabhu Biradar said NGOs used them for various awareness activities among the community members, but they were underpaid. Sanjiv, who is HIV-positive, said people like him were subjected to harassment and were ill-treated for no fault of their own. What pained him most was that even doctors were rude while treating them. Revathi, who has authored a book titled  , said there were several talented transgenders, but the social stigma was a major obstacle in their success. She said although the State Government had included hijra, koti, jogappa, mangalamukhi, female-to-male (F to M) and male-to-female (M to F) communities under transgenders, and had decided to give them reservation under the Backward Class II-A category, the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society had only mentioned hijras in its order, which should be immediately rectified. Mr. Patil said to mark the inauguration of the KSM Forum, a procession had been organised in Hubli on Sunday, in which members of the sexuality minority communities would be participating in large numbers. It will be followed by a programme at Town Hall.