Serve nation: Major Sudhakar Drivedi addressing the students of Engineering colleges of Namakkal and Karur districts at Muthayammal Engineering College recently.    Sri Ganesh College of Arts and Science, Salem organised one day seminar on ‘Company Secretaryship-based technical studies,' on its premises recently. M Ramasamy of Commerce cum Computer Department welcomed. Correspondent M. Thangavel and Secretary T Vijayganseh presided. Principal C Kumarasamy and others spoke. S Anuradha, Committee member, Salem Chapter of Company Secretaryship of India, spoke. K Suganya proposed a vote of thanks. Indian Army conducted recruitment drive for Army officers through University Entry Scheme in Muthayammal Engineering College, Rasipuram in Namakkal district recently. Chairman R Kandaswamy and Secretary K Gunasekaran inaugurated the interview. Col. Pradeep Tiwari, Lt. Col. Ashish Khare and Major Sudhakar Dwivedi of Indian Army conducted the campus interview. Muthayammal College of Arts and Science, Rasipuram in Namakkal district conducted an alumni meet on the premises recently. Secretary Muthuvel Ramaswamy presided over the function in which students of past shared their suggestions. Dean M Sundararajan, Principal A Stell Baby and faculty members V. Balasubramanian, M. R. Lashminarayanan, D Vinayagamoorthi and M Selvan and 500 students took part. The Red Ribbon Club's Rajaji Institute of Technology, Periya Seeragapadi, Salem conducted HIV/AIDS awareness camp on its premises. Correspondent M V Rangarajan presided. Secretary Varadarajan and Principal M Rajaraman spoke. AIDS Society Manager Santharam conducted the camp. Speakers detailed about the issues concerning AIDS. Project Officer Ramakrishnan and others organised the A two-day national level technical symposium was organised at the Mahendra Engineering College, Mallasamudhram in Namakkal district recently. Chairman M G Bharath Kumar presided. Principal R Samson Ravindran offered felicitations. Bavithra Balaji (VIT, Vellore) and D Sumathi (Reliance Communications) were chief guests. Inauguration of Textiles and Fashion Designing Association “Couture” was held at Sri Kandhan College of Arts & Science, Gopalapuram, recently. G. Saravana Raj, President inaugurated the function. Various competitions like Rangoli and Drawing were conducted. Students exhibited their talents in accordance to the latest fashions and trends. Prabhu , Meena and Raja bagged First, Second and Third prizes in the Drawing Competition respectively. Principal A.Rajendran distributed prizes to the students and congratulated them. The office bearers M.Bhuvaneshwari, D. Rajakumar and D.Srinivasan, were inducted as President, Secretary and Treasurer respectively. R.Chandraprabhu, Head, Department of Textiles and Fashion Designing and Faculty members were present.  Students B. Sabarinathan, E.Arulthandapani, T.Soundararajan and L.Lakshmanan of second year Electrical and Electronics Engineering of Knowledge Institute of Technology, Salem, won the first place in the state-level conference at Narasu's Sarathy Institute of Technology, Salem. The students won first prize for presenting a paper on short circuit protection for High Voltage Transmission Line. Students of Second year K.Gopal and S.Praveen won second place in Technical Marketing conducted at Teja Shakthi Insitute of Technology, Coimbatore. They also presented papers on Effective Energy Conservation and Management in Industry and Domestic sectors. A national-level Technical Symposium “INSGLiTZ'10” was organised by the Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering recently on the premises of Muthayammal Engineering College, Rasipuram in Namakkal district recently. N. SenthilKumar of Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi, inaugurated the event. S. Selvarajan, Dean, and R.Kandasamy, Chairman, presided over the function. M. Muruganandam, Head of the department, welcomed. C.Venkatesh, Staff co-ordinator introduced the Chief Guest. G.Sudarmozhi, Head, Department of Science and Humanities, gave the valediction address. R.Sathish Kumar proposed the vote of thanks. In view of Engineers' day celebration the Paavai College of Engineering, Pahal in Namakkal district conducted a Project exhibition “TECH EXPO'10” by ECE Department recently. Chairman N.V Natarajan, inaugurated the exhibition along with correspondent Mrs. Mangai Natarajan and Principal V Muralibaskaran. All the students visited the technical exhibition and understood the technical details of the different kinds of project. The Department of Fashion Technology of Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam, conducted a workshop on the Selection of Needles for Sewing. T.T. Sathya Prabhu from Groz-Beckert (India), the Indian arm of the well known German based manufacturer of sewing, knitting and nonwoven needles, conducted the workshop at the Institute premise. Mr. Sathya Prabhu highlighted various processes involved in the manufacturing of the sewing needles. In order to enhance the teaching methodology, the needle manufacturer has assured to provide teaching charts and sample needles to the institute. A catalogue show on various products of Groz-Beckert was also arranged in the department for the benefit of the students and members of the faculty. The Department of Mechanical Engineering of JKK Nataraja College of Engineering, Komarapalayam, conducted a technical symposium recently. Senior General Manager(HRD), Brakes India Ltd G.K. Sridhar, inaugurating the programme, spoke on the importance human resource development. College Chairperson N. Sendamaraai presided. Over 60 students from various colleges attended the programme. President of Makkal Sinthanai Peravai T Stalin Gunasekaran delivered the valedictory address. Department of Computer Science Engineering of Excel Engineering College, Komarapalayam, conducted a technical symposium recently. Chairman of Care Voyant Technologies P. Thangamuthu, inaugurating the event, advised the student to prepare themselves to face the future challenges. College Chairman A.K. Natesan presided. Principal R. Malathy was present. The Department of Information of Technology also conducted a technical event. The college also celebrated the Engineers' Day. The English Association and English Literary Association of Vellalar College for Women, Erode, were inaugurated recently. Associate Professor in English N. Vijaya Durai, inaugurating the association, said that language competency is the need of the hour. He also highlighted the problems and perspectives for effective communication. Special Correspondent in Salem S. Ramesh in Erode