Staff Reporter KOLLAM: Phase 2 of the Red Ribbon Express (RRE), flagged off by Sonia Gandhi, Chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance from New Delhi's Safdarjung railway station on December 1, 2009 will arrive in the district on Thursday. Its halt is at the Karunagapally railway station. Labelled as the world's largest social mobilisation campaign against HIV/AIDS, the RRE, with ten coaches, is an exhibition-cum-education train that is scheduled to halt at 152 stations to spread awareness on AIDS at 10,000 villages in 141 districts of the country. The train began its Kerala campaign on February 23 at Kasaragod. Karunagapally is the last stop of the RRE in its Kerala campaign. The train will then enter Tamil Nadu. In addition to Kasaragod, the RRE campaigned at Kannur, Tirur, Palakkad, Thrissur, Aluva, Ernakulam South and Kayamkulam. It halted for two days at each station. The Kerala campaign is coordinated by the Kerala State AIDS Control Society. The RRE is an idea developed by the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, the National AIDS Control Organisation and the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan. The campaign has been designed to include on-platform and off-site communication activities for maximum outreach and impact. Aim of campaign The campaign will promote safe behavioural practices and fight the stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV. It also aims at enhancing people's understanding of the disease. The train will have doctors, volunteers, counsellors and folk artistes on board. Two lifeline buses are also travelling with the train and these will be used to take the campaign to the interior areas of a district. Inside the train there will be counselling facility for people. Treatment for sexually transmitted disease will also be provided. Training on AIDS control and prevention would be imparted to people's representatives, industrial workers, youth, government employees, representatives of parents and teachers associations and anganwadi workers inside a special coach of the train by doctors who have been trained abroad for the purpose. Cultural programmes The RRE campaign would be complemented through street plays and cultural programmes. Volunteers travelling in the train will travel to areas far from the station to engage in outdoor counselling. Phase-2 RRE had an additional task too and that was to create mass awareness about swine flu. One coach of the train is devoted for this purpose. On arrival at Karunagapally, the RRE exhibition will be inaugurated by the Food Minister C. Divakaran. The free exhibition will be from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.