Staff Reporter BERHAMPUR: Thousands of rural women from different parts of Ganjam district thronged Berhampur railway station on Friday to welcome Red Ribbon Express which started its two day sojourn here on Friday. Ganjam happens to be the most HIV prone area and as per prevalence of HIV infection it stands in the 14th position in the country. The HIV infection rate of women, pregnant mothers and transfer of HIV infection to children from mothers is quite high in this area. So, the district administration, health officials, Orissa State AIDS Control Society (OSACS) and the NGOs involved in AIDS awareness work had decided to use the arrival of Red Ribbon Express to target the rural women, who are mostly related to migrant labourers of remote areas. Five representatives, mostly women from 2,800 ‘Gaon Kalyan Samities (GKS)' in Ganjam district have been mobilised to come over to get educated by the Red Ribbon Express and spread the message through meetings at their respective villages after returning back. The representatives included the local Anganwadi workers, Asha volunteer and elected ward member. Around Rs.28 lakh meant for the GKS bodies was used for the purpose. The inauguration ceremony of the sojourn of Red Ribbon Express in the city was attended by the RDC southern division, Chandrasekhar Kumar, Ganjam Collector, V.K.Pandian, MLAs of Gopalpur, Aska and Berhampur. They also flagged off four publicity vans which would reach out to the target population in 40 villages of Ganjam district to spread the message of AIDS awareness. The rural women were too enthusiastic about the displays inside the train. The displays on bio-medical aspects of HIV and AIDS, including interactive touch screens and 3-D models were drew much crowd. Counselling cabins They also received information on general health, hygiene and communicable diseases such as swine flu, TB. Several peer groups took part in seminars and training programmes in the conference hall in the Red Ribbon Express. The four counselling cabins and two doctors' cabin in the train to provide counselling and treatment also remained filled up throughout the day. The needy persons were referred to the nearby ICTC centre.