The success tale of the city-based NGO Vasavya Mahila Mandali (VMM), working to curb paediatric AIDS through effective implementation of community-based care and support, has found a place in “MDG success stories from Asia and the Pacific: Accelerating Achievement of the MDGs,” published by the United Nations Millennium Campaign, as part of its contribution to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) review process. The publication is a compilation of success stories and good practices from Asia and the Pacific, presenting case studies that feature innovative initiatives that have made tangible impact on the MDGs. “The objective is to bring out innovative approaches to effectively address issues of inequality and marginalisation, a significant challenge in the region,” says Minar Pimple, Regional Director, Asia and the Pacific, United Nations Millennium Campaign, in the foreword. The VMM case study throws light on the improved HIV testing among children exposed to ‘positive' mothers in Andhra Pradesh; reduced mortality among children living with HIV; how social safety net increased adherence to treatment among HIV-affected children; increased compliance and adherence among parents living with HIV with an improved treatment access behaviour; and how VMM's experience in paediatric care and support were translated into development of a paediatric counselling module for the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) to train counsellors by embracing a child-friendly approach. It also explains how advocacy with the State government led to the provision of concession for the ‘affected lot' to travel to anti retroviral therapy (ART) centres in public transport. In its analysis on what has worked and why, the VMM attributes it to factors like provision of education and treatment by its outreach workers. The peer support, it says, also helped reduce stigma and discrimination. The organisation workers accompanying orphan children to the ART centres and promoting institutional deliveries, improved intake of nutrition-rich food habits, sensitising health care professionals and bringing out a book on nutritional food recipes in vernacular languages were the other factors mentioned. Stigma and discrimination at family and community level and difficulties faced in interventions in child-related cases are some of the challenges figured out by the VMM. The organisation has mooted multiple-level interventions involving key players in HIV/AIDS care, treatment and counselling with emphasis on child-friendly means of communication, designing of child-centric support programmes by the NACO, introduction of Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test for children below 18 months at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), mainstreaming of paediatric AIDS care and integration of paediatric HIV testing into Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) services. With only five years remaining for achievement of the MDGs, which are the eight international goals that all the 192 member states of the United Nations and at least 23 international organisations have agreed to achieve by 2015, the United National Millennium Campaign has speeded up efforts to identify innovative modes of getting the better of the situation.