Krishna district AIDS Control Officer T.V.S.N. Sastry on Monday emphasised the need to “bust the many myths and misconceptions” that were “paralysing the health sector”. Addressing an awareness meeting on AIDS, attended by the NSS volunteers and first year degree students of Sri Durga Malleswara Siddhartha Mahila Kalasala on the college premises, Dr. Sastry said instead of focussing only on HIV or AIDS scenario, he would like to speak about the general health situation because a comprehensive knowledge of health would pave the way for a healthy society. Referring to symptoms associated with various diseases and ailments, he said people blindly followed superstition instead of trying to get a realistic picture. “Take for instance the case of tetanus, widely believed to be caused through a rusted article. But the fact is that any particle lying in the soil can cause tetanus.” He said a patient suffering from ‘fits' must not be held tightly to avoid any possible fracture of bones and the saliva from his mouth must be allowed to dribble out. “In chicken pox, there is a specific treatment which cures the ailment. But most people waste valuable time due to age-old superstition associated with it,” he said, adding that leprosy, as is widely believed, doesn't come through contact but it spreads through droplets in sneezes and cough. He also spoke at length about HIV, how the virus gets transmitted and effective ways to remove stigma and discrimination against people afflicted with the virus. He said students must donate blood as it is a noble act. Allaying fears that donation of blood may make the donor weak , he explained the technical factors to prove that there was no cause to panic. He said the ‘taboo' factor had prompted the authorities to call the Red Ribbon Clubs as Youth Red Cross Units. P. Deeksha, medical director of Vasavya Mahila Mandali, a local NGO working for HIV-infected and affected children, said there was a dire need for people in the society to empathise with the orphan children infected or affected by the virus. She advised the girls to drop one rupee every month in a box and use the money at the end of the year to sponsor an orphan child's education. She hailed the team of lecturers from the college for ‘adopting' children affected by HIV/AIDS and suggested that in addition to financial support for their education, they must extend them psycho-social support as well. “This is essential for emotional balance and to instil confidence in them,” she said. Revathi, a girl affected by HIV and working at VMM, shared her traumatic experience when she learnt about her parents' and brother's HIV status. College principal and other staff were present on the occasion.