Lighting the lamp: Prasannanath Swamiji of the Adichunchanagiri Math inaugurating the 21st National Road Safety Week in Shimoga on Tuesday.    Special Correspondent Shimoga: President of the zilla panchayat H.C. Basavarajappa has said road accidents can be prevented if the number of vehicles plying on the roads is restricted. Speaking after inaugurating the 21st National Road Safety Week here on Tuesday, Mr. Basavarappa said that the departments of Police and Transport should engage the common man in keeping the road accidents under check. He suggested that it should be made mandatory for bullock cart owners and tractor trailers should fix reflectors so as to prevent accidents. Superintendent of Police S. Murugan said the observance of the road safety week should not become a mere formality. He stressed on the need to create awareness on the need to make travel on roads safe. He suggested that road-widening work should be taken up wherever necessary to tackle traffic congestion. Secretary of the National Education Society S.V. Thimmaiah said it was disturbing to note that if children died of hunger in Ethiopia and of AIDS in the U.S., a large number of children are dying in road accidents in India. According to him, reckless driving and the presence of stray and abandoned animals on the roads were among the main causes for increase in the number of road accidents. He said action should be taken against people not following traffic rules. While stating that the undue haste and lack of patience on the part of drivers invariably leads to road accidents, Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat A.B. Hemachandra said the use of mobile phones while driving should be banned. Deputy Transport Commissioner Maruthi Sambrani said drivers should do their best to avoid road accidents. Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey made a strong plea for encouraging people to ride bicycles. He said a large number of people ride bicycles in the Western countries and besides saving fuel, it is also advantageous to the people because riding a bicycle is good for health. Change in policy will encourage people to use different modes of transport, he opined. He said children should be taught to administer first aid to people injured in accidents. Prasannanath Swamiji of the local branch of the Adichunchanagiri Math released the CD on road safety. The CD was brought out by the Department of Transport. The seer said people who help shift persons injured in road accidents to hospitals should not be subjected to needless legal procedures. Regional Transport Officer C. Mallikarjun, in his welcome address, said the fact that nearly 1.25 lakh people died in road accidents in India every year highlighted the need to create awareness on road safety measures. The programme was jointly organised by the Department of Transport and the Police Department.