Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: Most of them were young, docile and vulnerable to circumstances that pushed them into what seemed to be an irreversible state of affairs that refused to get better. A number of factors constantly harrying them back home nudged them to take to flesh trade. Living under an incessant threat of earning the tag of a ‘sex worker’, a taboo in the society, they continued their lone battle that seldom saw them emerging victorious. “We may have been victims of circumstances. Today, we are equipped with adequate knowledge that is needed for a sex worker to protect her rights. We are no more at the mercy of others to fulfil simple tasks like securing a ration card or an old-age pension, thanks to the targeted interventions by the governmental and non-governmental organisations,” said 25-year-old Savita, a housewife from Nuzvid. The woman was addressing a workshop organised by the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) here on Tuesday, on the eve of International Sex Workers’ Rights Day observed on March 3. CFAR is a public interest research and advocacy group committed to interventions on gender and development issues with a focus on HIV/AIDS, education, women’s health, sustainable development, child rights and elimination of violence against women and children. Savita declared with a sense of pride the constructive role of a Community Guide (CG) she had been playing among sex workers for last few years. “We form into groups at village, mandal and district levels and appoint team leaders. The main idea is to identify sex workers in our respective localities, develop a close rapport with them and help them address issues related to their development. A number of these community-based organisations (CBOs) have formed a network of sex workers and named it “Krishnavennella Mahila Society”. It has helped many sex workers come out in the open to voice their problems that are collectively addressed by the leaders. Use of condoms is a key issue. Introduction of ‘social marketing’ by the local NGOs under which condoms are made available at nominal cost, has helped them a great deal in protecting their health. The CGs are in regular touch with the sex workers in their locality to monitor health-related and other needs. The duties of a CG include identifying and motivating HIV/AIDS-affected women to visit government hospitals for timely treatment. The key objective of observing this day on March 3 every year is to celebrate the empowerment of sex workers who seek a better deal in society.