CANDID CONVERSATION Former Physical Education Director of Loyola College M. Sathiyaseelan (right) with Fr. K. Amal, SJ, Rector, Loyola College, Chennai, at the launch function PHOTO: V. GANESAN    H ad he been a boxer, M. Sathiyaseelan would have been a champion in any weight category. Instead, he chose another path and turned out to be successful. The Physical Education Director of Loyola College from 1974-2005 (from 2002-2004, he was with the University of Madras) didn't believe in pulling any punches. For him, diplomacy and niceties were traits meant only for the weak-hearted. During his stint in Loyola, he single-handedly changed the sports policies of the college through serious engagement with the management and straight-talking with the players and the media. “The basketball team suffered only 12 defeats during my association with Loyola,” he recalled proudly. Even after his retirement in 2005, Sathiyaseelan didn't fade into the wilderness. Instead he regularly interacted with friends and former colleagues, gathering information about sports in schools and colleges. The result was a book titled “Redefining Sports Culture in Educational Institutions”, the launch of which was attended by a galaxy of personalities such as W.I. Davaram, former Director General of Police, Anand Natarajan, international athlete, and Sheila Stephen, Principal, YMCA College of Physical Education. The book deals with the importance of Physical Education Teachers in educational institutions and the skills they should acquire to excel. Further, it talks about what educational institutions lack and suggests remedies. “The book is a must-read for all Physical Education Teachers (PETs),” said Sheila during the launch function. Loyola's Yeddanapalli Hall, which has a seating capacity of 150, was filled with Directors of Physical Education from private institutions, fitness trainers and Sathiyaseelan's students. This, despite incessant rain and heavy traffic, vouches for Sathiyaseelan's popularity. Fr. K. Amal of Loyola said, “The book has come at a time when sport has become a business. I am sure it will kindle interest,” he said. What's outstanding about Sathiyaseelan, said Dr. K. Vaithianathan, Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University, chief guest, is his “uncompromising nature.” The book too hasn't spared the PETs for their timid attitude. Describing the work as original, Davaram said, “It's an encyclopaedia of sports management and sports administration.” John Prakasam, games president, Loyola College, said, “Loyola is privileged to have Sathiyaseelan who is a role model. His contribution towards the development of sport is great.” As the function drew to a close, Sathiyaseelan, a strict disciplinarian, explained how he successfully exhorted the management to raise the allotment for students under the sports quota in the hostels. He thanked the college management for allowing him to implement reforms. He did not forget to mention the Jesuit priests, the coaches and professors who had inspired him. Starting his career in a not-so-well-known college in Aruppukottai, Ramanathapuram District, Sathiyaseelan went on to transform the way Physical Education Directors were perceived by the college management, students and the media. Known for independent thinking, clarity of purpose and boundless energy, Sathiyaseelan has shown the way to the next generation of PETs. K. KEERTHIVASAN