A cycle rally, organised recently by the Coalition of Chennaites for Cycling (CCC) along with the Indian Federation United Nations Associations (IFUNA), Chettinad Vidyashram, R.A. Puram, was flagged off by Transport Commissioner, Dr. Rajaram, from the school. To set an example for the children, the Transport Commissioner and the Secretary, IFUNA, ‘Americai' V. Narayanan, travelled by cycle from Luz and Thiruvanmiyur respectively. Mayor of Chennai, M. Subramanian, who has been making an effort to make Chennai cycle-friendly, received the memorandum signed by more than 4,000 students of Chettinad Vidyashram at Marina Beach by Mahatma Gandhi's statue. ‘Americai' Narayanan requested the Mayor to connect cycle kiosks throughout the city with franchise type of operation where people can rent bi-cycle in various spots in the city and drop it in different places. Mayor praised CCC and the students of Chettinad Vidyashram for creating awareness of bicycling. He also recalled the earlier request made by CCC for cycle lane. He pointed that based on their request, he has already created a 16 km bi-cycle lane in Anna Nagar. He also promised to look into connecting various cycle kiosks as suggested by CCC. Amudha Lakshmi, Principal, Chettinad Vidyashram, thanked the Mayor, Dr. Rajaram, K. Jayakumar, MLA, Nagaraj MC and ‘Americai' Narayanan. 14 students of the AFS foreign exchange programme, each carrying their respective countries' flags, and over 250 students of Chettinad Vidyashram carrying ‘Save Our Tigers' placards, enthusiastically participated in this cycle rally. *** Sree Venkateshwarar MHSS, Royapettah, celebrated its 49th Annual Day at the school premises recently. R. Natraj, DGP, Fire and Rescue Services, was the chief guest. The function was marked by variety entertainment by students. A Tamil fusion dance, folk songs in Hindi and Tamil, classical western dance and tribal dance by students regaled the audience. The programme included an English drama ‘The Dear Departed' and the Tamil drama ‘Bhakta Markandeya,' which were appreciated by the chief guest and the spectators. The chief guest praised the efforts of the students and teachers in presenting such a magnificent show. He stressed the value of character-based education and said that the character and commitment were the twin aids for success in life. He quoted from works of Sathya Sai Baba, Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Vivekananda to support his view. He also exhorted the parents to help in the development of their wards by cutting off unnecessary sources of diversion such as cable TV and movies. He said that home is the second school and school is the second home. The chief guest distributed cash prizes to toppers of Class X and XII (April 2010) and to other meritorious students. *** It was all about science on October 21 at P.S. High School, North. The students of the school saw the exhibits which were explained and demonstrated by their peers. There were 45 exhibits, which were also seen and appreciated by the children and parents of the neighbouring schools. Practical demonstrations of Laws of Physics and Chemistry helped in the understanding of the concepts. Simple models such as a pin hole camera and others made the show lively. One of the highlights was a model of the Arignar Anna Airport. There were also charts and exhibits elaborating on the use of solar energy, water conservation and environment pollution. *** A seminar on Leadership Skill was recently conducted by the New College Staff Association. The seminar was conducted for the office-bearers of the Students' Union and various Sectional Association Secretaries. The president Dr. P.M.S. Abdul Gafoor welcomed the chief guest, Dr. S. Satish, senior principal, RMK Group of Schools. Principal Dr. K. Altaaf highlighted the importance of the seminar. Dr. Sathish elaborated on the importance of leadership skills and highlighted the need for these skills in today's challenging environment. Dr. Md Ubaidur Rahman, treasurer, proposed the vote of thanks. The NCC Cadets of 2 Coy 1 (TN) BN NCC of the college NCC Army wing took out a rally on October 30 within the college campus. The rally was led by Capt. Zahid Hussain, Company Commander, 2 Coy 1 (TN) BN NCC. The Cadets participated in the Vigilance Awareness and Anti-Corruption Campaign among the fellow students of the college. Cadets of this college have been actively taking part in the social service activities such as blood donation, tree plantation, awareness on conservation of environment, AIDS awareness rally, anti-tobacco rally, cancer awareness programme, swine flu awareness programme, pulse polio immunization, etc for the past one decade.