C artoonists are, at times, excellent political and social commentators. Shyam Mohan's collection of cartoons, on display at the Indian Cartoon Gallery, has layers of meanings hidden deep within. Ironic is the most apt word I can think of to describe Shyam Mohan's cartoons. Take for instance a cartoon depicting urban life. The sketch is divided into two — the first half of which shows a man swinging on a rope among trees while the second shows a contrasting image of the same man swinging on a rope amidst tall buildings. This sketch suggests that modern man lives in a concrete jungle, far removed from nature. Another cartoon is a sketch of an hour glass, the top half of which has a rich man relaxing in a swimming pool and the bottom half has two poor men, one of them holding up a glass, standing on dry land. This sketch effectively portrays both economic disparity and how water is fast becoming a scarce resource. Interestingly, the feminist in Shyam Mohan finds expression in two sketches. In one such sketch, the hollow in the female gender sign is drawn like a well. In it stands a hapless woman, waiting to be rescued. Another cartoon portrays the commonly held belief that the roots of corruption runs deep. The sketch shows numerous roots of a tree, crawling deep into the soil. The word “corruption” is written in bold on the base of the tree. There are cartoons that bring a smile too: a cartoon of a doctor putting a stethoscope on a patient's pocket, trying to detect how much money he has and a man being served the Leaning Tower of Pisa for dinner! Shyam Mohan, a resident of Hyderabad, is an award-winning cartoonist. He has been sketching fascinating cartoons for the past 18 years. His cartoons on corruption, AIDS and Globalisation have found favour among readers. He is the founder of Andhra Pradesh Cartoonists Forum and is the editor of Inidanink.org. His sketches have been displayed in Germany, Iran, Switzerland, Turkey, Greece, Italy etc. His cartoons will be on view at the Indian Cartoon Gallery, No.1, Midford House, Midford Garden, off M.G. Road, near Big Kids Kemp, Trinity Circle, till October 9 from 10 a.m. to 6p.m. (except Sundays). Call: 9980091428 or visit: www.cartoonistsindia.com. SRAVASTI DATTA