Staff Correspondent Madikeri: Four persons have died of AIDS in Kodagu during the first three months of the year, while 65 were found to be HIV positive, it was revealed at a progress review meeting under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) held here, an official press release said on Thursday. Sixteen AIDS deaths occurred in 2009 and 296 persons were found to be HIV positive, District Surveillance Officer Satish said at the meeting presided over by Deputy Commissioner K.H. Ashwatha Narayana Gowda. There are 11 Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTC) functioning in the district. An anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centre was started at the District Hospital here four months ago. HIV-infected individuals, who were sent outside the district for treatment before, were being treated at the ART centre here, Dr. Satish said. Most patients with tuberculosis were also found to be HIV positive, he said. So far in 2010, 111 cases of TB have been reported and 13 people have died of the disease. Communicable diseases With regard to communicable diseases, the statistics revealed that 38 cases of gastroenteritis have been reported in the current year so far, all of which were treated and cured. While no case of cholera has been reported this year, two cases of jaundice have been detected. Besides, 67 cases of typhoid, six cases of malaria and three cases of dengue have been detected. All have been treated and cured. As many as 241 cases of diarrhoea have been reported. Animal bites As many as 1,133 dog-bite and 38 snake-bite cases have been reported in 2010, while only one case of chikunguya has been reported. ‘Purify water' Water samples from 9,026 sources including open wells, piped water, borewells and tankers were tested. Of these, 1,905 were found unsuitable for drinking. Mr. Gowda and Chief Executive Officer of the Kodagu Zilla Panchayat Mirza Akbarulla informed the Health Department that gram panchyats would be instructed to purify water to be supplied for drinking. Mr. Gowda told District Health Officer Shivaram Naik and Taluk Health Officers to regularly visit the PHCs, taluk and district hospitals to ensure proper health care. Mr. Akbarulla called upon hospitals to maintain hygiene and ensure the success of the NRHM.