FOR CLIMATE CHANGE:Students of Park College of Technology, Coimbatore, organised a candle vigil to spread environment awareness. It was held on the eve of the Copenhagen Summit.    Park College of Technology students held a ‘candle vigil' recently to spread environment awareness. A release said around 200 students of environment engineering participated in the programme, organised on the eve of Copenhagen Summit. A similar number of students from sister institutions also participated. Principal A. Raman, Chief Executive Anusha Mahesh and others led the vigil. Kovai Kalaimagal College of Arts and Science recently celebrated eighth alumni meet. A release from the institution said S. Natarajan, principal, spoke on importance of health, planning for success in life. Head of the Department, Commerce, G. Sugunavalli welcomed the gathering. Kovai Kalaimagal Education Trust Executive Secretary A. Krishnamurthy felicitated the gathering. S.N.R. Sons College recently conducted ‘Talent Search in Finance – 2010', a talent examination in commerce and computer applications. A release from the institution said the one-and-half test consisted of 100 questions. Principal and Secretary V. Sengodan inaugurated the event, in which 150 students from various colleges participated. PSG College of Arts and Science recently conducted an in-service basic science training programme for secondary grade science teachers of Government schools. A release from the College said the workshop provided quality teaching skills with innovative classroom teaching techniques to the participants. Newer teaching and learning methods in basic science, biological science, environmental science and e-learning techniques were also taught. Teachers from 65 schools participated. Department of Electronics, C.M.S. College of Science and Commerce, conducted a placement training programme recently. A release from the institution said the programme covered soft-skill development, communication skills, pre-placement preparation, interview tips, etc. V. Neelakandan, assistant professor, English, SNMV College of Arts of Science, spoke on ‘Learning Speaking', R. Mohan, director, Maruthi Entrance Coaching Centre, spoke on ‘How to Solve Quantitative Aptitude Even Without Using Pen and Pencil', the release added. Social Entrepreneurship: The Future Career Choice? was the topic of discussion at the annual Industry-Institute Interface Day of GRG School of Management Studies, held recently. Shrihari M. Udupa, chief people officer, PricewaterhouseCoopers, India, inaugurated the programme. Nandini Rangaswamy, secretary, GRG institutions, welcomed the gathering. San International Business School recently organised a ‘Placement Preparatory Workshop'. A release from the School said W. Joky, area business manager, Ma Foi Management Consultants Ltd., and K. Nanthini, principal, SAN IBS, inaugurated the workshop organised for second year MBA students. Trainers from Ma Foi Academy handled classes at the five-day workshop, which was aimed at imparting soft-skill. SNS Business School of SNS College of Technology recently organised outbound experiential learning programme (ELP). A release from the School said first and second year management students camped at Chalakudi, Kerala, where they were given rigorous training from 6 a.m. onwards in ELP. Hindusthan College of Arts and Science through Department of Biotechnology and Microbiology conducted a seminar. A release said ‘Biosummit 10' was held to discuss ‘Recent Perspectives in Nanotechnology'. Speakers from Madurai Kamaraj University, Nano-RAM Technologies, Bangalore, Mizoram University and Dr. NGP College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, participated. Sarasuwathy Khannaiyan, secretary, N. Balusami, principal of the College, presided over the function. Network Security was the topic of the seminar organised by Sri Gee College of Arts and Science conducted recently. A release from the College said E. Karthikeyan, assistant professor, Govt. Arts College, Udhagamandalam, in his inaugural address said network security was a big challenge and that it was right time to address the issue. B. Chitra, assistant professor, SNMV College of Arts and Science, spoke on ‘Pros and Cons of Steganography'. Principal G. Sekar presided over the function. Citizen Consumer Club of Dr. Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology, Pollachi, recently organised a State-level consumer awareness quiz competition for students of engineering, arts and science colleges. A release from the institution said 150 students participated in the programme, which was presided over by S. Indhrani, president, Consumer Association, Pollachi. Karunya University recently conducted a seminar on ‘Achieving Food Security in Times of Crisis'. A release from the institution said Registrar Anne Mary Fernandez inaugurated the seminar. V.V. Sreenarayanan delivered the key-note address, in which he touched upon emerging trends in food processing and engineering, value addition technologies in food production and utilisation of food wastes. N. Varadaraju, professor and head, Post Harvest Technology Centre, TNAU, also spoke. Sankara College of Science and Commerce recently conducted a seminar on AIDS awareness. A release from the College said the programme was conducted in association with the Red Ribbon Club of Bharathiar University. Principal R. Selvakumaran and R.R. Vaitheswaran, district director, Red Ribbon Club, participated. The latter spoke on AIDS, how it spread and could be prevented. Student R. Prasanth proposed the vote of thanks. Dr. N.G.P. Institute of Technology recently inaugurated Robotics Club. A release from the institution said Dr. Nalla G. Palaniswami, chairman, KMCH, and Thavamani D. Palaniswami, secretary, Dr.N.G.P.I.T. participated in the inauguration function. G. Sainarayanan, head, R&D, ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu, and S.N. Sivanandam, professor and head, CSE Department, PSG College of Technology, said such clubs helped students acquire knowledge and do real good projects. Principal S. Dhandapani welcomed the gathering. P.A. College of Engineering and Technology, Pollachi, through its Department of Computer Science and Engineering and Information Technology conducted a seminar on ‘The Challenges and Opportunities in IT Sector'. A release from the institution said Bharanetharan, first line manager, IBM Corporation, India, spoke on leadership skills, IT business and project implementation strategies. B. Ashok Rajan, CEO, Metis Technology, Chennai, spoke on open source software. A lecture on “Value Based Management of Life and Profession” was delivered by N.S. Ramaswamy, founder Director, Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, at the SNT Global Academy of Management Studies and Technology. He stressed the need for managing one's body and mind before managing the environment. He urged the MBA students to adopt value-based practices in profession and life. The Department of Microbiology of Sree Narayana Guru College conducted a nature awareness rally. It was aimed at creating awareness among the public about afforestation, replacing plastics with bio-degradable paper bags, cups, plates, etc. Nearly 150 students holding placards went about spreading the message. The Department of Computer Science of Vidyasagar College of Arts and Science organised a training on “Hardware Networking”. Students were made aware of the opportunities other than software development in the Information Technology field. Hands-on training on hardware components, hardware assembling and troubleshooting were held. The Department of Costume Design and Fashion of Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science conducted a workshop on Aari hand embroidery. Students were taught all types of thread work, beadwork, mirror work, zardosi and cut work. They tried out the same on surface of clothes. The Department of Women's Studies, Bharathiar University, and Department of Foods and Nutrition of RVS College of Arts and Science, organised a food preservation training programme for Self-Help Group women. Women from Nesam Mahalir Group of Ganeshpuram took part in the programme. They were taught the preparation of jam, squash, cookies and cake. They were also given packaging and storing tips. A. Sathyapriya, student of Mathematics of Pioneer College of Arts and Science, won the first prize at the State-level essay competition organised by the Bharathiar University in connection with Anna Centenary celebrations. L. Jeeva Kuzhandairaj, student of BCA, won the first prize in the inter-collegiate elocution competition held at Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science. A two-day exhibition–cum-sale of apparels designed and developed by the students of the department of Costume Design and Fashion at St Joseph's College for Women, Tirupur, was held on the college premises recently. A wide range of casual and party wear collections for women and kids were being displayed at the expo at discounted prices. Besides apparels, some memorabilia like glass paintings, decorative pots and wall mountings produced by the students were also displayed. To showcase some of the theme-based designs developed by the students, a fashion show was conducted on the final day. AMUTHA KANNAN, Karthik Madhavan in Coimbatore and R. Vimal Kumar in Tirupur