MEETING OF MINDS Mahatma Gandhi chatting with C. Rajagopalachariar at the Basin Bridge railway station platform in 1940 PHOTO: HINDU ARCHIVES    I grew up in Kizhanatham village (Tirunelveli) by the river Tamiraparani. For us, Madras was like another country. I first set out from my village in 1940, boarding a train to Madras — to see Gandhiji. I was all of eight, but looked much older, and managed to reach Madras safely. Not many people travelled by train; also there was no concept of reserving tickets. But, one could still travel in comfort. The stations were well-maintained and there was no fear of theft. You could leave your bag anywhere, and return to find it right there. I got down at the crowded West Mambalam station. The English sergeants did a fine job controlling the crowds that thronged the station on their way to see the Mahatma. Gandhiji was staying at Mangala Bhavan in T. Nagar, and I was among thousands of hopefuls who set forth for his darshan. Rajaji, who was at the entrance of the building, requested us to leave, saying the Mahatma needed to rest. We did not pay heed. But, the minute Gandhiji came up to the window and waved at us, we dispersed without a word. That was the kind of respect he commanded. There was a prayer meeting held on a large playground in T. Nagar; I headed there too, and got to stand behind the dais. I can still remember the strains of ‘Baja Mana Pyare Seetharam' that the entire congregation sang, led by Pyarelal Nayyar. And, when a section of the crowd would not repeat the bhajan, he would lovingly chide them to sing louder. I went back to the village after a week in Madras, taking in all the temples and city life, and returned to Madras nine years later, in search of a job. Those days, Madras used to be very clean. The   (pyols) in front of most homes would turn into shelters for the floating population during the night. And, as early as 4 in the morning, the public lavatories would be cleaned and thrown open for use. This ensured that the roads stayed clean. Commuting was a dream too, thanks to the trams. Those who knew English were held in high esteem. And, the school syllabus used to be of a high standard. We had mastered  , and quite a bit of Shakespeare and other classics before we completed SSLC. The verandah of 64, Bells Road, Chepauk, was home for many days, till I found a job in Best and Company for Rs. 80 a month. Though one could lead a comfortable life with very little money those days, it was still a difficult proposition for many. A full meal cost only two-and-a-half  , but even that amount was hard to come by. And, we could get 32   (measures) of rice for one  . With five rupees, you could run a house for a month.  and sweets were a rarity; we had them only at wedding feasts. Those days, we got rice from Burma. And, during World War II, it used to be imported from Brazil. By the time it reached us, the rice would be mouldy and smelly. After the village and Palayamkottai, where I later studied, Madras was a dream come true. I especially loved the Connemara Library. How it opened my mind! That was where I read the   by Krishnaswamy Iyengar, which got me interested in the temple, and later led to my writing the book  . Temples were a font of knowledge. During festivals, people would sit outside the gates selling  , and other books about the temple, its rituals, and the like. These books did not boast stylish covers. They scored on literary merit and served as a wonderful introduction to a temple. A novel cost an   or two. I particularly remember the English translation of our epics published by Vavilla Press... Now, you hardly find such quality fare. Soon, I moved jobs and joined the postal department, and began writing in all seriousness. People used to read a lot.  …the list was endless. That was also the time when magazines started training their eyes on reportage of real incidents. Till then, fiction ruled. Saavi, who was the editor of  , once sent me to write about condemned prisoners. It was an experience that stayed with me for long. Occasionally, when going to Tirupati, we would drive past Nagari Mooku near Chittoor. There was a small mandapam atop the hill, where palm fronds would be burnt to alert approaching ships and boats that Madras was near. That was our native lighthouse! What do I miss most about those days? Actually, nothing. I believe change is needed, and have gladly accepted that. I enjoyed Madras then. I do even now. (As told to SUBHA J RAO)