Be aware to spot cancer    An experts' meet on cancer comes up with astounding statistics Do you know that the global cancer epidemic kills more victims annually than HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria combined? The majority of the global cancer burden is found in low-income and lower-middle income countries. In the past year, 7.6 million lives were lost, a death toll equivalent to an Asian tsunami every ten days. And by 2020, cancer is expected to kill more than 10 million people a year. These and more astounding statistics came to the fore at a cancer meet at the Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre on finding strategies to preserve organs attacked by the disease. The meet attracted experts on the disease who brought forward statistics like, that more than 75 per cent of the new cancer cases and deaths are expected to be in developing countries. Also, that 70 per cent or more cancers in developing countries are diagnosed in late stages. More than 50 per cent of the cancers can be cured by radiotherapy alone or in combination with other modalities of treatment, namely surgery and chemotherapy. However, it came up in the discussion that the part of the problem lies with the late detection of the disease and the general feeling that cancer leads to body disfigurement. According to Dr. N.R. Datta, senior consultant at the Institute's Department of Radiation Oncology, “The phobia attached to cancer traditionally is that any treatment in cancer would lead to a severe body disfigurement, a structural and functional loss that would make the person physically and mentally crippled. Thus, many patients could conceal their disease even if diagnosed at an early stage and would deter from seeking proper medical assistance.” Dr. Datta's point of view was corroborated by other doctors. Said Dr. P. Choudhury, senior consultant and coordinator, Nuclear Medicine, RGCI & RC, “If cancer is diagnosed, the patients should go to a comprehensive institute where they can get every kind of tests done and also have cross consultation between doctors which is very important.” The experts concluded the talk by pointing out the early warning signals of the disease. Among the early symptoms are excessive cough, weight loss, lump, bleeding and sour wounds. Early symptoms of cancer Excessive cough Sudden weight loss Lump Sudden Bleeding and sour wounds