Mysore district, which was ranked third in the State in terms of prevalence of HIV/AIDS cases in 2008, has improved its position in 2010. Registering a decrease in the number of HIV/AIDS cases, the district now ranks tenth. Bagalkot district occupies the top position in the State. According to District HIV/AIDS Controlling Officer T. Raghukumar, 13,866 people have been diagnosed with HIV/AIDS in the past eight years in Mysore district. Of them, 776 were pregnant women. As many as 10,138 patients were being treated at Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) centres and the rest being monitored regularly as their condition was improving, he said. Detailing the steps taken by the Government to check the spread of the disease, he said teams of doctors and experts had been visiting rural areas to educate people on the precautions to be taken to keep HIV/AIDS at bay. Awareness was also being created among pregnant women. This had helped in reducing the number of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV cases, Dr. Raghukumar said. He said that 67 women had been diagnosed with HIV/AIDS in Mysore district since January this year. Seven infants were infected through MTCT in the district in 2010. He said that rigorous awareness campaigns had resulted in bringing down the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate in the district. The prevalence rate in the district which was 11 in 2008 has come down to 5.8 in 2010. The prevalence rate among pregnant women in the district which was 0.88 in 2008 has come down to 0.27 in 2010, he said. On the efforts being made in Mysore to contain the spread of the disease, he said 27 Integrated Counselling and Treatment Centres (ICTC) were working in the district to create awareness on the disease and two ART centres were being established in the city. He said that ART centres were being opened in taluk hospitals in Nanjangud, Hunsur, T. Narsipur and Saragur. To mark World AIDS Day it has been decided to launch a weeklong awareness programme both in the city and the district. On Wednesday, a rally of medical students and paramedical staff would be flagged off from Mysore Medical College and Research Institute premises by district in-charge Minister S.A. Ramdas, he said. This year's theme is ‘Youth and AIDS Control'. Interaction programmes and quiz competitions have been organised in 30 colleges. Street plays would be staged in all taluk centres as part of the awareness programme, Dr. Raghukumar added.