Winsome Tania Sachdev   | Photo Credit:  When it comes to cooking, chess pro Tania Sachdev says it's the thought that counts, not results When Tania Sachdev entersDelhi's Bonsai restaurant,all eyes turn towards thechess diva. Some of thestaff members mumble "Is she amodel?" The youngster carriesherself rather gracefully. "Chess isa mental game, but a healthy mindneeds a healthy body. I work out alot, which some of my mates don't.They believe in meditation. I alsodo, but not much. I was a hyperactivechild, and still love to do differentthings in my spare time,"says Tania. She declares her lovefor prawns. "There is nothing likethe luxury of home-cooked foodsuch as rajma-chawal, but when Igo out, I love to try Italian andOriental cuisine." She recalls her adventures inthe kitchen. "I grew up in a house,where women don't cook much.We always had a cook. Once I visitedmy brother in Singapore, andtried to impress him by cookingrajma. It turned out to be adisaster as there was no connectionbetween the rajma and thecurry. But I didn't feel sorry,because it's the thought thatcounts!" A graduate in English, Tanialoves to watch films in her freetime. Once upon a time, SalmanKhan was her favourite. "It wasduring his `Andaz Apna Apna'days. My favourites keep changing.After `Wake Up Sid', I am allfor Ranbir Kapoor." She can'tstand the country's fascinationfor cricket, and watches the gameonly for Dhoni. "I like the way hehandles pressure. It is a lessonfor every sportsperson." Does she have ambitions in theglamour world? "Not at all. I amcalled to walk the ramp or a paneldiscussion just because I am doingfine on the chess circuit. I alsoassociate myself with showswhere some part of the income ismeant for charity. Such as SanjanaJon's fashion show, where theproceeds went to HIV patients." Her slender figure doesn't suggestit, but Tania has a fascinationfor desserts. "I can't resistchocolate preparations." In fact,she loves to celebrate her victorieswith the calorie-rich stuff. "Ican't forget the experience inFrance when I caused an upset ina tournament. I had blueberrycheese cake. After that, I had itevery day and achieved someamazing results."