Budding poets: Participants at the Tamil poetry writing competition at Little Flower Higher Secondary School, Kumbakonam.    The individual talent test for the students of Kumbakonam education district was held at the Little Flower Higher Secondary School, Kumbakonam, recently. A large number students from different schools participated in the essay writing, oratorical, dance, poetry composing and singing competitions. Kamala, District Educational Officer, presided over the valediction and felicitated the participants. She also called upon the students to develop self-confidence and perseverance to attain success in life. Rev. Fr. L. Robert Selvan, headmaster, Little Flower Higher Secondary School; Subramaniam, headmaster, Government HSS, Anaikkarai; M. Selvasekaran, Assistant headmaster, Crescent HSS, Avaniapuram; Rajendran, headmaster, Government Girls HSS, Nachiarkoil, felicitated the students. The Lions Club of Pudukkottai Victory felicitated toppers from class six to ten of the Municipal High School, Rajagopalapuram recently. Thirty students who had secured the top three ranks in quarterly exams were awarded a certificate, medal and dictionary each. P.Arumugam, assistant headmaster presided. J.Jonathan, president of the club urged students to develop a positive attitude and competitive spirit to reach greater heights. Secretary S.M.Palaniappan announced a cash award of Rs. 2000 for students who secured 100 percent in maths in tenth board exams. Sabhanayaka Mudaliyar Hindu Matriculation School, Sirkazhi arranged a ‘Kolu' display during the Navarathri season. Around thousand dolls, contributed by students were exhibited. Teachers offered puja on all days of the Navarathri festival. NCC cadets of Government Model Higher Secondary School, Pudukottai, took out an AIDS awareness rally recently. Thiraviyarani Ashokpandian, panchayat president, flagged off the rally in the presence of S. Rajasekar, principal of the school. Both of them administered oath to the cadets. P. Muthukumaran, district liaison officer of the NSS and Gunasekaran, Senate member of the Bharathidasan University, also participated in the rally led by Paramasivam, NCC officer. The rally passed through important thoroughfares before reaching Town Hall. Contributed by Olympia Shilpa Gerald in Tiruchi.