elasticity: Students of Banadurai Higher Secondary School, Kumbakonam, who excelled in gymnastics.    Students of Banadurai Higher Secondary School, Kumbakonam, won the overall championship in the Kumbakonam educational district-level gymnastics competition. Floor exercises, vaulting table, parallel bar, horizontal bar and roman ring events were conducted. E. Kalimaurthy, S. Gowtham Krishna and S. Adithyan were adjudged individual champions in the under-14, 17, and 19 age categories respectively. K. Angayarkanni, headmistress, felicitated the students. A large number of students took part in the AIDS awareness rally organised by Junior Red Cross at Muthupettai in Tiruvarur district. P. Ponnaiah, Chief Educational Officer, Tiruvarur, flagged off the rally. Later, competitions were conducted and prizes distributed. J. Varatharajan, Patron, District JRC; S. Jayaseelan, coordinator and R. Senthil Kumar, secretary, spoke. More than 300 students from classes IV to XII and volunteers of the National Green Corps (NGC) units of various schools participated in the Nagapattinam educational district-level NGC competitions held at the Natarajan Dhamayanthi High School, Velipalayam, Nagapattinam. The students took part in painting, audio-visual screening, elocution, essay writing, quiz competitions on the topic ‘one planet, many species, one future', the motto of the UNO for the year 2010-11. N. Balasubramanian, PA to the Chief Education Officer, gave away prizes. Mr. Balasubramanian said that such competitions provided a good platform to the students to display their hidden talents. Bhuvaneswari, headmistress of the school, Ashok, Tamil pandit, Murugan, coordinator, SPEECH NGO, M. Muthamizh Ananda, district coordinator, NGC, offered felicitations. A fun fair was celebrated at the Mount Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Pudukottai, recently. The chairman of the Mount Zion Educational Institutions, Jayabarathan Chelliah, inaugurated. The proceeds from the fair will be given to charity. Nearly 500 food stalls transformed the school campus into a bustling food festival. School teachers had put up food stalls, according to their departments. Video games and movie shows enthralled the students. Fancy dress competition for the students of LKG to std. V delighted the audience. Contributed by G. Prasad and Syed Muthahar Saqaf in Tiruchi.