Andhra University teachers are getting their arrears of the enhanced salaries during December. After the UGC recommended pay-scales have been implemented with effect from January 2003, the administration has paid the arrears up to December 2009 to the PF accounts of the teachers and after a gap of several months, the teachers will be getting the arrears of the remaining months (from January this year) in a couple of weeks. Each teacher is expected to get around Rs. 1 lakh in arrears. Vice-Chancellor Satyanarayana has also taken steps to conduct the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) interviews for teachers and formed a committee work out the modalities for interview based on the UGC guidelines like having publications, community participation, attending workshops and seminars, curriculum development at the departments, innovative teaching methods, etc. Andhra University departments are forced to buy their own stationary, engaged a carpenter, electrician or a plumber on their own and pay for the spare parts and wires and cables even as the telephones, net connection, electrical gadgets stopped working and no one is there to put them in order. Is the acute shortage of funds or lack of control, the reason for this state of affairs, one wonders. State of affairs in a university, particularly Andhra University, will see a lot of change whenever a new man comes in as Chief Minister. An academic institution should not bother who the CM is but times have changed and a lot of speculation takes place on the changes that will take place. Speaker N. Kiran Kumar Reddy took over as CM and it so happened that the present VC's term is coming to an end in a few months time. Very soon the campus will hear who will be the next V-C and what changes will take place. Prof. Satyanarayana inaugurated a training programme for ONGC officers on modern deltas at the Delta Studies Institute of AU. The programme is important in the light of KG Basin being recognised as a potential oil and gas resource. Principal of AU College of Science and Technology V. Veeraiah, Director of the institute M. Jagannadha Rao, course directors D. Deva Varma and K. Satyanarayana Reddy, P.K. Moulik of Exploration Group of ONGC Academy (Dehradun) and others participated. The NCC unit and Red Ribbon Club of Mrs. A.V.N. College organised a blood donation camp to mark the NCC Day as well as the 150 years celebrations of the college. Fifty students and staff donated blood. The camp was inaugurated by MLA D. Srinivasa Rao. Principal R. Kanna Rao presided. The camp was supervised by NCC Officer N. Ramakrishna. Andhra University Research Forum organised a panel discussion on the Right to Information Act. Third Additional District Judge and Special Judge for ACB Cases G.V. Krishnaiah said it was important in a democracy for the people to know the decisions and policies of the Government, particularly in the area of protecting and preserving natural resources. Vice-Chancellor of AP University of Law Y. Satyanarayana said RTI Act is a powerful tool in the hands of the people while Registrar A. Subrahmanyam said transparency and good governance go hand in hand in the society. Principal of AU College of Law A. Rajendra Prasad presided. AU Registrar P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy, Chief Convenor of AURF K. Rammohan Rao and others participated. It was a different kind of experience for the students of PRISM College. At programmes like the one on life management the college organised recently, one expects a well trained speaker explaining many things through a good speech and supported by a power point presentation. But the Family Services organisation which was engaged by the college made it in a different way. Three hearing and speech impaired members of the Family Service Appala Naidu, Phani and Hyma interacted with the students through sign language, with Mr. Mehra, president of the organisation explaining the sign language. They told the students to be positive, cheerful and manage life without good spirit. There are six success tips-setting up a goal, will power, persuasion, conviction, optimism and healthy habits, the three told the students. Principal of the college B. Umabala, the students and staff had a hearty interaction with the team even after the demonstration. The college also organised a blood donation camp recently in which secretary of the college D. Satyanarayana Reddy and others donated blood. Members of WRT-92 participated in the camp, held as part of the Round Table of India week. Red Ribbon Clubs of some other colleges conducted programmes on AIDS and HIV awareness and prevention. Principal of Dr. V.S. Krishna Govt. Degree College J.V.V.S.N. Murty inaugurated the programme at the college. V. Venkata Rao of the Health Department, NSS Programme Officer P. Venkata Rao, Lecturer of botany G.B.S. Seshagiri spoke. At the programme organised by the SKML Degree College, Dr. P. Venkata Rao and Mr. V. Venkata Rao spoke on HIV and AIDS and life skills. Principal T. Theophilus presided. NSS programme officer of Mrs. A.V.N. College M.S. Nayudu, SKML College's chairman B. Nageswara Rao and secretary B. Nagabhushanam, NSS PO M. Srinivas also spoke. The Vignan's Institute of Information Technology (Duvvada) organised a two-day conference on emerging trends in security and privacy (ERTSP) 2010. Professor of School of Computing of KL University Kodukula Subramanyam was chief guest of valedictory function. Principal M. Ramjee, HoD of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) K. Thammi Reddy, HoD of CSE of AU College of Engineering for Women V. Valli Kumari, convenor of the meet K. Venkata Rao and others participated. The conference was inaugurated by VC of Rayalaseema University J.V. Prabhakara Rao. Venkateswara Rao Vemuri of University of California, was guest of honour. A Junior Lecturer of Dr. L. Bullayya Junior College L. Bhavani Lalasa received Ph.D. in Telugu from Andhra University for her thesis “Malleswari Navalalu-Pariseelana”. Prof. V. Simmanna was her research guide. Ph.D. was awarded in geology to G. Venkata Kesava Kumar for his thesis “foramnferal ecology and distribution of the Sarada-Varaha estuarine complex, central east coast of India”. Prof. T. Yeruku Naidu was his research guide.