New invention: Deep Bahan from ‘Rickshaw Bank’, Centre for Rural Development, giving a demo to visitors at ‘Social Inventor-Entrepreneurs of Ashoka Lemelson’ at ISB in Hyderabad on Friday. -   | Photo Credit:  HYDERABAD: A low cost rapid testing kit to detect infectious diseases, including malaria, credit-based solar-powered lamps for the needy and drudgery-reducing rickshaw under a ‘Rickshaw Bank’ were among the innovative products that were showcased at ‘Marketplace Session’ of Ashoka-the Lemelson Foundation’s Tech4Society event being held at the Indian School of Business. The non-microscopic infectious disease kit, costing $1 could be used to detect malaria, HIV and typhoid within 15 minutes. The biggest advantage was that it could be used in remote areas, said Bachi Alisjahbana, director of the Indonesian company which developed it. In case of malaria, the kit would specify whether the disease was caused by plasmodium falciparum or other species. He said the accuracy of the kit in diagnosing malaria ranged from 85 to 90 per cent while it was 99 per cent in the case of HIV. Dr. Bachi, who is specialist in infectious diseases, said that since the last one year over 1,00,000 kits were sold in Indonesia. Kathmandu-based Centre for Renewable Energy has supplied 300,000 units of solar-powered lamps on credit in Nepal for rural households. Anil Chitrakar from the Centre said that 78 million people in India use kerosene lamps. The product developed by their Centre costing $ 50 would be given on credit which could be paid in over 500 days at the rate of Rs. 4 a day, the cost equivalent for daily use of kerosene. Another innovative product which attracted a lot of attention was the replica of a rickshaw developed by IIT Guwahati for the Centre for Rural Development. According to Pradip Kumar Sarmah, executive director for CRD, there were 8 million rickshaw pullers in the country. He said 95 per cent of them hire the vehicle and never own it in spite of toiling for years. In a bid to enable the rickshaw-puller to own the vehicle, the CRD has come out with a ‘Rickshaw Bank’, under which finance of Rs.10,500 would be arranged for the rickshaw-puller to buy the rickshaw, two pairs of uniforms and insurance cover. He said that so far, 3,500 rickshaws which are lighter than the conventional ones were delivered in Assam. They would be supplied in Tripura, Chennai, Surat, Lucknow, Allahabad and Banares.