Gender issues: Goa Governor S.S. Sidhu, along with Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Pratapsingh Rane, inaugurating the seventh Annual South Asia Media Summit in Panaji on Monday.    Media is the sector where struggle for issues such as gender equality and women's empowerment could be effectively put to the test, said Goa Governor S.S. Sidhu here on Monday. Mr. Sidhu was speaking after inaugurating the seventh Annual South Asia Media Summit on “Women in Media in South Asia: Partners in Development” organised by the International Centre Goa (ICG), Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES)-India and Public Diplomacy Division, Ministry of External Affairs, in association with the Media information and Communication Centre of India (MICCI) and Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, at the ICG here. Speaker of Goa Legislative Assembly Pratapsingh Rane was present. While the people of South Asia share common ethos, challenges and problems, what probably prevents them from adopting a unified approach in matters affecting them is the diversity wrought by different systems of governance, social taboos and religious beliefs, particularly when it comes to emancipation of women, said Mr. Sidhu. “Therefore, it is left to the enlightened community, comprising journalists, to break the apparent barriers and provide the necessary means for women of our region to forge ahead,” said the Governor. He said the holding of this Summit is a happy augury, considering the fact that this year, the centenary year of the International Women's Day is being observed. Noting that there is a resurgence of women mediapersons in the region, Mr. Sidhu remarked that women journalists have, in fact, taken the audio-visual media by storm particularly in India, and some of the neighbouring countries. The Governor said that certain conditions such as better pay, training facilities and personal security have to be created to attract more women to the field of journalism. There are other factors such as customs and religious beliefs, which hinder their entry into this profession in some countries. Yet, the struggle for liberty has to be fought on a continuous basis, he noted. “In this regard, women journalists in our region have a responsibility of ensuring justice to the sick and underprivileged counterparts. Issues such as dowry deaths, burning of brides, sexual abuse, honour killings and even HIV/AIDS are some of the areas that need their attention,” he remarked.