Honour: (From left) Students of Nadar Mahajana Sangam Sermathai Vasan College with the award presented to them at the College of Gandhian Thought; participants at a lecture on ‘Joy of learning' conducted at Madura College; speakers at a seminar organised by the Department of English, Thiagarajar College.    The Health and Hygiene Club of Nadar Mahajana Sangam Sermathai Vasan College organised an awareness programme on ‘Reproductive system of women and the common diseases connected with it,' in association with Giants Group of Greater Madurai. P. Uma Maheshwari and John Sam Arun of CSI Jeyaraj Annapackiam College of Nursing conducted the programme. An awareness programme on swine flu was conducted for students in association with the Department of Health. In the Gandhian Thought certificate and diploma course examinations conducted by Madurai Kamaraj University, the college was presented the ‘Maharishi Arunachalam Award' for sending the highest number of candidates. The award was presented during the Gandhi Jayanthi celebration by the College of Gandhian Thought, Gandhi Museum. *** The Women Empowerment Cell of Madurai Sivakasi Pioneer Meenakshi Women's College, Poovanthi, was inaugurated by woman entrepreneur Gowri Ashok. She also shared her experience in starting a new business. The Principal, R. Suriyabrabah, presided. S. Rukkumani, Head, Department of Commerce, welcomed the gathering. A lecture on ‘Consumer protection' was delivered by R. Vigneshwaran, advocate, at a meeting organised by the Citizen Consumer Club. The Career Guidance Cell of the college organised a lecture on information technology courses by Jayanthy Kumar of NIIT, in association with the Rotaract Club and Placement Cell. N. Mahalakshmi, president, Rotaract Club, welcomed the gathering. Jesima Bagum proposed a vote of thanks. *** Students of C.S.I. College of Education performed various street plays on themes like deforestation, infanticide, dowry, illiteracy and AIDS as part of an awareness building exercise. The Rural Development Association, led by team leader Dola Rose Mary, organised a team work performance to promote social awareness with various socio-centric themes. About 140 students from six B. Ed. Colleges participated in a workshop conducted by Intel India at the college. Shankari of Intel Company conducted the workshop on ‘Online access course on project based approach.' *** The Business Club of Michael Institute of Management organised a lecture on ‘Six Sigma: A dream or reality in Indian context' by M. Manikandan of Nokia, who focussed on the concept of lean manufacturing system in Six Sigma. The Director, R. Bernard Shaw, presided. Beracah Padmini welcomed the gathering and K. Sahul Hameed proposed a vote of thanks. A soft skill training programme was conducted for students by Seethalakshmi Sivakumar, Managing Director, Educare. A. Manikandan welcomed the gathering and H. Sahul Hameed proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Department of Seed Science and Technology of Agricultural College and Research Institute organised a training programme on ‘Seed production techniques in pulses and oilseeds' for farmers and extension functionaries of Sivaganga district. K. Vairavan, Dean, presided. K. Alagusundaram, Director, Indian Crop Processing Institute, Thanjavur, emphasised the need to use certified seeds in oilseed and pulses cultivation. R. Balasubramaniam, Head, Department of Agronomy, K. Balakrishnan, Professor of Crop Physiology, and R. Geetha, Associate Professor of Seed Science and Technology, were the resource persons. K. Sivasubramaniam, Head, Department of Seed Science and Technology, proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Department of English of Madura College organised lectures for students on soft skills. D. Rajalakshmi, Academic Head, Shresta Academy for English, spoke on ‘Presentation skill' and N. Elango, Associate Professor of English, The American College, on ‘Joy of learning.' The Head, Department of English, Sheela P. Karthick, welcomed the gathering and C. Sindhuja proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Bioresources Management Division of Thiagarajar College organised a special programme to mark Wild Life Week celebrations in which B.A. Daniel, Scientist, Zoo Outreach Organisation, Coimbatore, delivered a lecture on ‘Biodiversity and its conservation.' He narrated the story of formation of earth, origin of life and the explained how a single organism gave rise to the rich diversity of organisms. Due to anthropogenic activities, the climatic pattern changed erratically which, in turn, drastically reduced species diversity, he said. As a measure to save the environment, he advocated simple living by quoting Mahatma Gandhi as an example. He emphasised that Gandhian principles and his way of life would help in conserving biodiversity. Dr. Daniel also distributed environmental educational kits to the participants. R. Sekaran, Dean, Research and Development, presided. N. Arun Nagendran, Coordinator, Bioresources Management Division, spoke about the objective of the programme. C. Ravi proposed a vote of thanks. A State-level inter-collegiate seminar on ‘Shape Memory Alloys' was organised by the Department of Physics, in which over 50 students participated. M. Mahendran of Thiagarajar College of Engineering delivered the keynote address. S. Subramanian, Principal-in-charge, presided. N. Srinivasan welcomed the gathering and R. Sribala proposed a vote of thanks. The Department of English conducted a State-level students' seminar on ‘20th Century Men's Writing : A Treatise on Women.' Mohammed Arshad welcomed the gathering. K. Leelavathy, Controller of Examinations, Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women, said that technological advancements had reduced the burden of women in the modern society. G.J. Sathyaseelan, Head of the Department, in his valedictory address, stressed that the cause of women should be upheld. More than 95 papers were presented by students from all over the State. Syed Jenofer Fathima proposed a vote of thanks. *** Compiled by S. Annamalai