Selection: Final year students of Dr. Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology attending a written test conducted by Infosys during a recruitment drive in Pollachi.    The Women Empowerment Cell of SNMV College of Arts and Science was inaugurated. Sheela Ramachandran, Vice-Chancellor, Avinashilingam Deemed University for Women, was the chief guest. She urged the students to choose the right path and take the right decisions. Education, career, security, family, financial freedom and partnership were the important faces of women in today's context. She also stressed the four Qs – intelligence and quotient, emotional quotient, social quotient and spiritual quotient – for achieving empowerment. Computer Science and Engineering department of Kumaraguru College of Technology hosted a two-day workshop on ‘Research issues in Grid and Cloud Computing'. J. Shanmugam, Director, KCT, inaugurated the workshop and said the area of cloud computing was a fast growing one. S. Ramachandran, Principal, said that since there was no published material available in the field, such workshops would help staff and student enrich their knowledge. NCC Day was observed in NGM College, Pollachi. The day was marked by events such as sapling planting and competitions. Principal N. Rajakumar planted saplings and spoke on the need for growing tress to avoid global warming, ozone-holes, and increase in the sea levels. He also inaugurated the essay competitions on ‘The Role of Youth in National Integration among NCC Students'. NCC cadets, both senior division and senior women, also planted saplings on the college premises. Final year BE, B. Tech., M.Sc., MCA and M.E. students of Dr. Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology attended a campus recruitment drive organised by Infosys. As many as 187 candidates were recruited by Infosys. The selection process was conducted by the team headed by Narendra Medappa, Country Head-HR, Infosys. A two-day faculty programme on ‘Econometrics for Management Research' was held at DJ Academy for Managerial Excellence. Sthanu R. Nair of Indian Institute of Management, Kolkata, was the resource person. Complementary laptops were distributed to first year students of MBA at SNT Global Academy of Management Studies and Technology. S. Purushothaman, Secretary of Sri Niketan Trust, gave away the laptops. World AIDS Day was observed at Ranganathan Engineering College. A relay cycle rally was organised by the District AIDS Prevention Control Unit. Red Ribbon Club of the college in association with the Lions Club of the college organised a rally to commemorate the day. A short-term training programme on ‘Commercial Plant Tissue Culture and Agrobacterium mediated Gene Transfer Technology' was held at Government Arts College. K. Ramasamy, Vice-Chancellor, Karpagam University, stressed the importance of tissue culture and its impacts in the fields of health, food, agriculture, and environmental protection. The Placement Cell of Info Institute of Engineering organised a campus interview for students of all colleges. Graduates from the 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 batches attended the interview. Representatives from IBM were present to recruit candidates. Nehru Institute of Management Studies hosted a faculty development programme on research methodology for management researchers. L. Manivannan, professor, commerce, Erode Arts College, inaugurated the session and spoke on the various statistical tools and techniques essential for management researchers. The passing out ceremony of the 13 {+t} {+h} batch of Marine Engineering students was held at the Coimbatore Marine College. Satish B. Agnihotri, Director General of Shipping, Ministry of Shipping, gave away the certificates to the cadets. Seesha, a non-profit organisation, which is involving the participation of the students of Karunya University, organised some charity activities in connection with Christmas. Chancellor of the university Paul Dhinakaran gave away new clothes to nearly 500 needy children. Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Paramedical Sciences, Coimbatore, in association with the Indian Pharmaceutical Association – Education Division organised the valedictory function of the 49 {+t} {+h} National Pharmacy Week 2010. The institution also conducted the semi final round of IPA's National Elocution Competition. C. Soundara Raj, Managing Trustee, SNR Sons Charitable Trust, presided over the function,. PSG College of Nursing conducted Zenith 2010, the south 12 {+t} {+h} zonal level nursing quiz competition. The annual event, held for the 12 {+t} {+h} successive year, received a good response from nursing institutions. The focus of this year's event was on paediatric and psychiatric nursing. Fourteen colleges participated in preliminary test. The Avinashilingam Deemed University for Women in association with the Department of Horticulture organised a brainstorming session on effects of public-partnership in establishment of marketing unit for horticultural crops through the involvement of farm-women self help groups. T.A. Karunanithi, president, Thondamuthur Town Panchayat, inaugurated the event. Dr. N.G.P. Business School, Coimbatore, organised a one-day workshop on managerial skill development. More than 50 management students participated and benefitted from the programme, which was organised by the Association of Department of Management Studies. Nanjan Balu, Director, Standards and Excellence, Coimbatore, initiated the workshop by bringing out the vital and mandatory requirements of emerging new business models. Sree Narayana Guru Polytechnic College's magazine was adjudged the best college magazine by Divyodaya Inter-religious Centre, Coimbatore. Gurdip Singh Annand and Krishnaraj Vanavarayar gave away the prize to the college. District level science competitions were conducted by the Tamilnadu Science Forum at the Amrita Viswa Vidya Peetham, Coimbatore. Anandhi, Chief Education Officer, inaugurated the exhibition. She asked the students to acquire skills and understand scientific concepts while learning science instead of rote learning. V. Ganesan, Academic Director, said that scientific research would be fruitful to the society only if was done with human values. Coimbatore Institute of Management and Technology inaugurated YUKTHI, the MBA Department HR club. S. Narayanan, Senior Consultant, SRM Learning Tree Pvt. Ltd., Chennai, inaugurated the club. He also spoke on issues in HR. KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology recently hosted the 18 {+t} {+h} National Children's Science Congress. A release said S. Krishnasamy, head, Tamilnadu Science Forum, presided over the function. Pongalur N. Palanisamy, Minister for Rural Industries and Animal Husbandry, inaugurated the exhibition. The Department of Electronics and Communication at the Angel College of Engineering and Technology conducted a national-level workshop on ‘VLSI design and its applications'. S. Govindharaju, professor from Kumaraguru College of Technology in Coimbatore, explained the concepts of MOSFET transistors, CMOS logic gates design and layout, and MOSFET spice modeling. In the other technical sessions, topics like dynamic logic gates and storage elements were deliberated. The 120th Founder's Day of Sri G.V.G. Vishalakshi College for Women, Udumalpet, was held with grandeur recently. The college choir sang songs that highlighted the deeds of the founder, G. V. Govindasami Naidu. On a separate occasion, the college conducted a soft skill training programme in association with HCL-K2 Academy. An entrepreneur development cell was opened at the Erode Builder Educational Trust's Group of Institutions at Kangeyam. The cell would be taking up activities to develop the soft skills of the students and hone their inherent entrepreneurial talent. Amutha Kannan, Karthik Madhavan & R. Vimal Kumar