Varied events: Vinayaka Mission's Kirupananda Variyar Engineering College, Salem, organised a two-day State-level Mechanical Symposium on its premises recently. (right) An awareness programme on HIV-AIDS by Red Ribbon Club was held at Vysya College in Salem. — Photos: Special arrangement    The School of Mechanical Sciences of Vinayaka Mission's Kirupananda Variyar Engineering College, Salem, organised a two-day State-level Mechanical Symposium. The symposium was inaugurated by chief guest Biradar Devidas, Assistant General Manager (Quality Control), Ashok Leyland (Unit II), Hosur. Guest of Honour was L. Swaminathan, Advocate, High Court, Chennai. Principal A. Nagappan presided over the function. Dean of Mechanical Engineering P. Ravikumar, staff and students took part. Paper presentation on various topics on Mechanical, Automobile and Aeronautical engineering was one of the components of the symposium in which students from 32 engineering colleges participated. Apart from paper presentation, other events like Technical Quiz, Technical Games, Displaying of Models, Auto Expo were also conducted. M. Govindan, Chief Manager, Burn Standard Company Ltd., Salem was the chief guest at the valedictory function. HIV-AIDS programme was conducted in Salem Vysya College for students in which transgenders and members from various clubs spoke at length on the scourge. Transgender Sathya told the students about the societal discrimination and prevention aspects. She insisted that society should understand the feelings of transgenders. Principal P Vankataesan presided. NSS Officer T Natesan and others spoke. The Kavery Engineering College, Salem, in association with SamCys Technologies, Chennai conducted a campus interview recently for the final year B.E/B.Tech and MCA students. More than 188 attended this placement drive. The interview was conducted in the presence of A. Anbalagan, Chairman, S.K. Elangovan, Secretary, S. Obli, Dean, V.Venkatachalam, Principal and C.G. Sekar, Placement Officer.  Eighteen students got selected and appointment orders were issued to them. S. Sathya, an IT student of Gnanamani College of Technology, Pachal, who secured university rank. The student achieved 11th rank in State level at the university examinations conducted by Anna University, Chennai. She was fourth rank in Anna University, Coimbatore and third in the Zonal-6, thus bringing laurels to the college. Chairman T. Arangannal congratulated her. The Department of Management Studies of Muthayammal Engineering College, Rasipuram, conducted a convention on Capital Market and Forex Management recently. M.G. Saravanaraj, Professor and Head, Department of Management Studies, welcomed the gathering. M. Madheswaran, Principal, Muthayammal Engineering College, asked the students to utilise the convention to up-skill their knowledge. He also stressed about the impact of foreign exchange on Indian economy. K. Gunasekaran, Secretary, Muthayammal Engineering College, offered his wishes for the convention. S. Selvarajan, Dean CSE and IT Department, Muthayammal Engineering College, delivered the felicitation address. In his address, he said that the students should have enough domain knowledge base in order to become competent. S. Periasamy, Deputy Manager, BSE Regional Office, Chennai, said that the capital market was like the two sides of the coin that is good and bad. But the investors should know the market risk and should analyse the pros and cons. He also said that the primary role of capital market is to channelise the investment from investors who has surplus funds to the needed one. A. Selvam, Sri Ramachandra Management College, Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai also spoke. The Department of Management Studies (MBA) of Annai Mathammal Sheela Engineering College, Namakkal, conducted a national-level workshop on “Management of Financial Services and Institution” recently. K. Selvavinayagam, Head of the Department, welcomed. K. Palaniswamy, Principal, presided. College Chairman T. Arangannal inaugurated the workshop. Chief guest S. Thirupathy, Accounts Officer, Treasury Department, Chennai shared his views regarding financial institutions. More than 120 students participated. The National Service Scheme unit of Kongu Arts and Science College, Erode, organised an Old-Age Day celebrations at the Subbayammal Home for the Aged here recently. College Correspondent A. Venkatachalam handed over a fan and food items to the home. Volunteers served lunch for the inmates. Home President P.S. Velusamy presided. The Reliance HR Services Private limited, Chennai, conducted a campus recruitment programme at M.P. Nachimuthu M. Jaganathan Engineering College in Chennimalai recently. A total of 21 students were selected and appointment orders were issued to them. College correspondent Vasantha Sudhanandhen congratulated the students. In another function, the correspondent inaugurated the conduct of NPTEL courses for the students of the college. A workshop on Effective Teaching Techniques and Stress Management was held at the Erode Sengunthar Engineering College. Professor A.P. Dange from PRMITR, Maharashtra was the resource person. Addressing the faculty members, he asked them to facilitate students in the learning process. A real education should help students to think outside-the-box and enable them to bring in more innovations. College Correspondent Vasantha Sudhanandhen presided. Principal Arun V. Parwate also spoke.