Admiring: Students watch an exhibit on the Red Ribbon Express at Hubli Railway Station on Thursday.    Staff Correspondent HUBLI: The Red Ribbon Express(RRE)- Phase II, which began its journey from New Delhi on December 2, 2009, with the objective of halting HIV/AIDS pandemic in the country by creating awareness, arrived at Hubli Railway Station on Thursday. Apart from specially designed coaches for sensitising people fon HIV/AIDS, the Red Ribbon Express has information on immunisation, symptoms and treatment of communicable diseases such as swine flu, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted infections and reproductive and child health (RCH) services. A specially designated coach on the National Rural Health Mission has been attached to the train. President of the Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Savitri Bhagavati inaugurated the awareness campaign and said that awareness was the only effective tool in checking the disease. Deputy Commissioner Darpan Jain, who inaugurated the exhibition on wheels, said owing to lack of awareness the health indicators and human development index of Karnataka were lower compared with neighbouring States. He said the apart from the RRE, two specially designed buses with two cultural teams would be visiting 40 villages in three days to create awareness among rural public. Divisional Railway Manager Adesh Sharma who flagged off the “cultural jatha” said that ignorance was “no longer bliss” but had become a curse especially with regard to diseases such as HIV/AIDS. Mr. Sharma said that only awareness could help in checking the spread of the disease. District Health and Family Welfare Officer N.M. Angadi said that 45,714 persons and 27,352 pregnant women had undergone HIV Test during the year. “While of every 100, 0.86 per cent instances of infection were found among pregnant women, it was 1 per cent for others”, he said. Deputy Secretary of zilla panchayat R.G. Nayak welcomed the gathering and the former district surgeon V.D. Karpurmath proposed a vote of thanks. The Red Ribbon Express will be stationed at Hubli Railway Station till 6 p.m. on Saturday. It will then move to Hebasur Railway Station where it will be stationed for a day.