Struggle for survival: The familiar sight of Burra Katha artistes performing at public meetings is becoming rare as the Government is withdrawing support. —   | Photo Credit:  P. Samuel Jonathan GUNTUR: The shiny chimes on their colourful dresses conceal years of struggle and hardship and the grease paint on their wrinkled faces masks their sorrow. The tribe of popular folk artistes (Burra katha) in the district, who once played a stellar role in popularising the many welfare schemes of governments, is fast sinking into oblivion. “We are facing with the worst financial distress and at least seven artistes have died in recent times unable to bear the struggle,” says Guntur district Burrakatha Kalakarula Samkshema Sangham president Jangam Venkateswara Rao. Coming from the lowest strata of society, the artistes had been left to fend for themselves as a range of benefits from the Government were put on hold. The customary support from the Department of Information and Public Relations had stopped, their monthly pensions were never paid on time forcing the artistes to look for other livelihood options. For instance, Mr. Venkateswara Rao doubles up as a painter. For years, the folk artistes were a vital link between Governments and the people, often raising public consciousness on issues like spread of HIV/AIDS, women and child welfare and other public campaigns. They were patronised by the people in villages. If it was late NTR who first encouraged them to perform at official meetings in specially designed vehicles, ‘pragathi ratham’, former chief minister YSR too was supportive and for some programme or other the artistes had been kept busy. But troubles continue to dog them since the year 2008, after the Government outsourced the publicity campaign to a firm, Integrated Mobile Publicity in Assembly Constituencies (IMPACT), which used to pay Rs.2,000 per programme. But from March 2009, the firm stopped utilising the services of the folk artistes. “We are ready to make innovations in our art and make it more appealing. We appeal to the government departments provide livelihood to us by utilising our services,” Mr. Venkateswara Rao appeals.