Much awaited:The film's strength lies in the second half when the action heats up.    Aptharakshaka (Kannada) Cast: Vishnuvardhan, Sandhya, Vimala Raman, Avinash, Lakshmi Gopalaswamy Director: P. Vasu Nagavalli's “charm”, chilling special effects, plenty of twists and turns and a tight grip on narration are the ingredients that have gone into the making of Aptharakshaka. They also make up for the story's lack of freshness. The first half of this much-awaited sequel looks similar to the 2004 blockbuster Apthamitra. But its strength lies in the second half, which has plenty of plot and sub-plots to keep the pot boiling. The story revolves around the fascinating dancer Nagavalli killed by Vijayarajendra Bahadur, and the ‘Captain', Vishnuvardhan as the psychiatrist. The villainous Bahadur kills his brother for his wealth and kingdom and kidnaps Nagavalli. He then commissions an artist to paint a life-size portrait of Nagavalli and in a fit of jealousy, murders him, Nagavalli as well as her lover Ramanatha. No wonder then Nagavalli's atma wants revenge. So it turns out that wherever Nagavalli's painting is kept, deaths occur. Meanwhile, one of the heroines, Vimala Raman, (the film has five heroines) wins the painting in a dance competition and as expected, Nagavalli begins to haunt her family. Her father Srinivasmurthy contacts Ramachandra Acharya (Avinash), who decides to turn to Captain Vishnuvadhan for help. It is from here that the director Vasu gets a hold on the film. For Vishnuvardhan fans, this film, his last, is a treat. With the superstar in three avatars, they get their money's worth. The psychiatrist's role, where he unravels the mystery of Nagavalli, is not very different from the earlier role in Apthamitra. Director Vasu concentrates on graphics, sound effects, locations and selection of artistes but fails in the details of characterisation. The missing links in this sequel are Dwarakish, Ramesh Aravind and Prema. There is limited scope for heroines to prove themselves. Komal and Avinash have performed well. M.T. SHIVA KUMAR