Students of Jain International Residential School presenting a skit to mark World AIDS Day and, at right, students of National Public School, Rajajinagar, presenting a drill at their annual sports meet in Bangalore.    Students of Jain International Residential School (JIRS), Kanakapura Road, observed World AIDS Day in a unique manner. An inter-house competition was organised in which students of senior classes participated. Each house was given a task to prepare, plan, and present ways to create awareness among people, especially the rural folk on AIDS, and other sexually transmitted diseases. They came up with multiple ideas to fight the disease. Students suggested a combination of activities such as road shows, posters, informative speeches, placards, and distribution of pamphlets that would help bring about change. Shankara house won the first prize, while Meera house came second. National Public School, Rajajinagar, held its annual sports meet recently. Students from classes 6 to 12, in their multi-coloured attire, exhibited their sporting prowess. K.P. Gopalkrishna, founder- chairman, hoisted the school flag and released a colourful scroll to inaugurate the event. This was followed by general salute and a synchronised march past by the four school houses — Centaur, Phoenix, Pegasus and Orion, led by school prefects, sports captains and house captains, and accompanied by the school band. School principal Santhamma Gopalkrishna, who welcomed the gathering, explained the importance of the virtues of humanism, reasoning and vision. She urged the students to imaginative and curious to learn. As part of Children's Day celebrations, Premier High School, Srirampuram, conducted various competitions recently. Students enthusiastically participated in various competitions such as fancy dress, rangoli, mask-making, mehendi, vegetable-carving. Later, prizes were distributed to the winners. As part of the ongoing development of life skills, National Public School, Koramangala, holds thematic assembly every Tuesday for grades 1 to 5. This enables building intrapersonal intelligence and imparting institutional values too. Parents too are invited for the show and are treated to a visual delight. The students enjoy the show with full fervour, enthusiasm and loud applause. Students of Cluny Convent High School, Jalahalli, brought laurels to the institution at the 10th KPMG Cadet Sports Meet conducted by Bangalore Sports Foundation recently. Lakshmi M. won prizes in long jump and high jump, Sinchana in shot-put, and Neethu in 400 m race. As part of the birth centenary celebrations of its founder Vidyasagara Prof. M. P. L. Sastry, MES Kishora Kendra Public School, Vidyaranyapura, organised a dance programme by Abhinava Dance Company. The presentation, led by internationally-acclaimed dancers Nirupama and Rajendra, enthralled the audience. THE HINDU NIE TEAM