FINGERS CROSSEDShubha Punja hopes that 2010 will bring many good films her way    M.T. SHIVA KUMAR Shubha Punja tells M.T. Shiva Kumar that she is hopeful of making a mark in the Kannada film industry in 2010 The charming bilingual actor Shubha Punja, hopes to get a big break in her film career in 2010. Alas, after box-office failures, she now anticipates some hits. Her much expected “Preethi Hangama” and “Golmal” are waiting to hit silver screens in March and if all goes well as per her plans, she would become the darling of Kannada film industry. Shubha, a local talent, came into the Kannada industry six years ago. Sadly, none of her films made it big. Shubha, who mesmerised the audience with her performances in “Chanda”, “Moggina Manassu” and “Takath” says she tried hard even in her earlier films and intends to leave a mark. Shubha is now discussing few scripts for her future projects and wants to settle in Kannada film industry. The actress made her mark in Kannada film industry with “Moggina Manasu”, which revolved around the dreams and desires of teenage girls. The film and her acting got tremendous response from the audience and the media. She bagged a Filmfare award (Best Actress in a Supporting Role) for her performance in that film. However, the films that followed including, “Slum Bala”, “Jackpot” and “Anjadiru” did not do well. Her performances, however were appreciated by critics. Shubha, hailing from Udupi district, made her entry through the Tamil film industry with “Machi” opposite Sivaji Ganesan's grandson, Dushyanth, in 2004. The film did not do well. Even her subsequent films, “Thirudiya Idhayathai” in 2005 failed. She eventually shifted to Bangalore and started getting opportunities here. “I was a model in Chennai and did many commercials there. The ads caught the eye of the film fraternity in Chennai and I was offered a role in a Tamil film,” says the actor. However, she adds that her “preference is for the Kannada film industry. I always wanted to act in Kannada films and make a good name here. I respect Kannada and Kannada film industry. I am discussing few scripts and I am expecting a good break this year,” she said. Shubha proclaimed that she would not compromise on her roles. And, she would not do roles if she felt that her family would be uncomfortable watching them. “I want to add value to my roles. If I get good scripts I am ready to compromise with the remuneration but no compromise with the roles,” she says categorically. Shubha, apart from films, loves dogs and has a few stray dogs as pets. She spends all her free time with them. Being an animal lover, she strongly condemns cruelty to animals. Her hobbies include cooking, reading and classical dance.