Special Correspondent VELLORE: “We have to create a lot of awareness of the methods of transmission of Hepatitis-C Virus (HCV), institute prophylactic preventive systems and create awareness on the need to avoid unnecessary injections in order to prevent the transmission of the disease in India,” said K. Rajender Reddy, professor of medicine and surgery, director of hepatology and medical director of liver transplantation of the University of Pennsylvania Health System, Philadelphia, U.S. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a Preceptorship Programme for gastroenterologists on ‘HCV for Special Populations’ at the Christian Medical College Hospital here on Saturday, Dr. Reddy said that if posed a question as to which disease one thinks had the highest incidence in the country, any common man would say Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). But today, HCV is a more serious problem. While globally, about 170 million people were infected with HCV globally, 12 million to 18 million people (about 1.5 per cent of the population) were affected by the disease in India. There are special populations in the northeastern States of India where the infection was prevalent among 80-90 per cent of the population. The U.S. hepatologist attributed the high prevalence of HCV among the northeast Indian population to the practice of youth taking intravenous drug injections and the activities of drug peddlers who enter the country from neighbouring countries and sell drugs in the those States. The transmission is also caused by the transfusion of blood infected with the HCV virus in view of the absence of proper screening of the blood for the presence of the virus, and by the use of un-sterilised syringes for injections. In these States, tattoos and the use of unsterilised blades by barbers also caused the transmission. “Transmission through non-disposable syringes is caused mainly in cases of injections administered through multi-dose vials. When the doctor or paramedical worker administers an intra-muscular or subcutaneous injection, he or she aspirates the needle in order to ensure that the needle had not been inserted into a vein. If the needle had been injected into a vein, the infected blood gets into the syringe when the needle is aspirated. When the person administers a second injection to another patient from the same vial, the latter gets the infection.” The risk of transmission of HCV from blood transfusion in the U.S. was only one in one lakh, he said. George M. Chandy, professor of gastroenterology, CMC, said that in India only the antibodies were tested when the blood received from donors in blood banks was tested, but a mere antibody test does not ensure the safety of the blood. “What we have to do is to test the presence of the virus, but because of the high cost, virus testing is not done in India,” he said. Dr. Reddy said that in the U.S., a donor visiting the blood bank for donation is given a questionnaire, which elicits information on the presence of HCV, the sexual behaviour of the donor and other relevant information. The test is done for antibodies, and if the person tests negative for antibodies, the blood is not taken. “Avoid injection or transfusion unless it is necessary. That is my message to doctors and patients,” Dr. Chandy said. Dr. Reddy said that as far as treatment for HCV is concerned, at present there are two drugs.. “We are developing new drugs, and by 2013, we are hopeful of replacing the injectible drug with an oral drug so that the patients could take two oral drugs,” he said. So far, no vaccine has been developed for the HCV virus as it is of a heterogeneous nature. Since the virus forms mutants in the process of replication, it may not respond to vaccines. Dr. Chandy said that 16 gastroenterologists from all over the country attended the two-day preceptorship programme conducted by Dr. Reddy. This is the first such programme in India.