Hi! Folks: The Burrakatha troupe performing on road safety at a meeting organised by the Krishna District Lorry Owners’ Association in Vijayawada recently. —   | Photo Credit:  K.N. Murali Sankar VIJAYAWADA: The traditional art form has always helped them convey the intended message to the targeted audience. Seven families residing at Kedareswarapet in the city are known for their effective presentation of Burrakatha in Krishna and Guntur districts. Be it the popular and dramatic ‘Palnati Yuddham’ or the story of ‘Veerabhimanyu’ that evokes sympathy for the young warrior in Mahabharatha, these families always won accolades till a couple of decades ago. But the present generation of these families is continuing the legacy in a different way. Though they still use Burrakatha to eke out a livelihood, the stories chosen for narration are no longer historical and mythological. One can hear them giving valuable information about various welfare schemes launched by the government, the need for taking precautions to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS, family planning, need for reducing wastage of resources like water and the steps to be taken by the road users to reduce accidents. “It can be any subject, and we will come out with a suitable performance in a day or two after collecting the required information,” says Miriyala Gangadhar, one of the artistes who heads four troupes of five members each. A lot of work obviously goes into the making of a Burrakatha performance. “We keep in mind the message to be driven home to the public and transform the data given to us into a story laced with comedy and sentiment. We mix street play with the traditional form of Burrakatha to attract the public,” explains Gangadhar, the 33-year-old artiste who learnt the art from his father Pulla Rao in childhood. “We all are related to each other and share the work amongst ourselves. Though we don’t have any formal education, we feel we have the blessings of goddess Saraswathi. That is why we are able to perform in front of many people, including Ministers and officials,” says Gangadhar. Each troupe consists of four male artistes and a female artiste, with a duration of each performance ranging between an hour and two hours. “We get the same kind of response in urban and rural areas. We got accolades from many higher officials too,” he says with a sense of pride. But the task is not always easy, especially when the troupe with a lady member has to talk about sensitive issues like the need to use condoms for family planning and to prevent HIV/AIDS. “It is inevitable,” says Nageswara Rao, Gangadhar’s paternal uncle. The troupes describe the days when the State government implemented ‘Janmabhoomi’ programme until March 2009 as a “golden period,” as the officials used Burrakatha to spread the message in villages. Offers from the government are now few and far between. “Officials say there is no budget for awareness campaigns. We have very limited contracts in our hands now. We hope the situation will improve very soon,” Mr. Gangadhar says optimistically.