THE STAGE IS SET Rammohan of Nishumbita sees a great future for kids who wants to take up theatre as a profession, (below) Ram with wife Sowmya   | Photo Credit:  PRABALIKA M. BORAH From a humble beginning in the streets to creating a theatre group, Ram Mohan Holagundi narrates the script of his stage life to Prabalika M. Borah ‘All the world's a stage' saidShakespeare… “I would love to carry the world with me,” is how Ram Mohan Holagundi, theatre personality would end it. From a struggling start in streets, to forming Nishumbita, a theatre group with more than 100 registered members, Ram has come a long way. Years back when he was scripting the ‘acts of life' beating the dappu to spread awareness on family planning with his small group, he didn't realise the potential of theatre. “As a tool for spreading the message among people it is very powerful medium,” he says. Since childhood it has been Ram's dream to do something for the society and when he became a student of theatre he realised that the tool to fight the ills of society was finally in his hands. It's been 21 years since then, now Ram uses theatre to help children find their creative instincts. His recent production was a play based on folk tales from different parts of the country and he is also preparing his little actors for the theatre fest to be held in Kolkata. “In a class of 60, around 40 kids wants to take up theatre, this goes to reflect the interest levels among kids,” says Ram who teaches acting as a subject in different schools in the city. While kids look interested, the real task lies for Ram remains encouraging the parents to let their children join theatre classes. “Parents somehow feel other subjects like computers science will make their child's future. Then I have to cite examples of software professionals and bureaucrats who dotheatre despite being what they are,” shrugs Ram. Unlike most actors or directors theatre wasn't something that Ram chanced upon. Though he began with painting, he and his brother as school kids had created an unofficial theatre group of St Patrick School and represented the school in YMCA competitions. They won most of the awards and that meant the unofficial theatre group getting discovered by the school authorities. “Our Principal congratulated us and encouraged me and my brother to participate in such events ‘officially,”' smilesRam. After that encouragement, theatre remained with the two brothers. Despite pursuing science and applying for CDS, Ram went on to do a PG Diploma in acting on his brother's suggestion. After which he did his MA in performing arts and won a gold medal. “During this time I was assisting a friend for an acting workshop in school. I was supposed to be there in the evening, but after the first day, I was there from the morning. I was thrilled and excited about working with children and then the school offered me the job of part time drama teacher,” he recollects. With the completion of his course and his coming in contact with young kids from slums in and around Charminar in the Old City to form the Koshish Theatre Group he begun his crusade. From then on theatre became his weapon and he started performing street plays on various aspects like communal harmony, national integration, girl child, child labour, education, AIDS, nutritional problems, environmental problems (including pollution, deforestation ), water harvesting and lots more to bring anawareness among the people. Besidesacting-directing and teaching, there is another ‘part' which he plays. After completion of his 10th he had joined the Torn Curtains as a production assistant. “Here I did everything from moping, creating background props, painting, getting water and refreshments for all. I loved every bit of my time spent with the team. It was an enriching experience,” he says. So which part of Ram––actor, director or teacher is the real him? “All aspects. Kids at school teach you everyday. As a teacher I only assist them, like my Principal I encourage them to come up with suggestions and thoughts on a particular scene or story. I don't teach them dialogue delivery and facial expression, it comes naturally to them. My students are all-rounders, they know everything from backstage management to costume designing. And when it comes to giving names they are experts,” he laughs. Ram also had the opportunity to teach special kids, “Their intelligence and enthusiasm encourages me at every step. And they have nicknamed me as Gundu,” he laughs. Ram is now assisted by his wife Souwmya, brother and sister-in-law at Nishumbita and he says “I am very fortunate to have a supporting family.” Till date Nishumbita Theatre Group has staged over 60 plays.