A visitor taking a look at an exhibit on display in Red Ribbon Express at Vijayawada railway station on Thursday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: Platform No. 10 of the railway station was abuzz with activity on Thursday, as people from different parts of Krishna district gathered there to have a glimpse at the exhibits on display in the Red Ribbon Express, which reached the city for a two-day halt. This is the second successive year the train that seeks to spread awareness about HIV/AIDS is making a halt here. The exhibits and the other modes of awareness creation used in the train are aimed at educating the public about the spread of HIV and steps to be taken to prevent its spread through counselling and treatment. The National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), in association with the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, has been running the train across the country. The special train has eight coaches in all. There are arrangements in coach number five for conducting clinical tests and counselling, while coach number six is meant for cultural troupes. The seventh coach is for providing refresher training to the local health workers and the eighth is to treat normal diseases like malaria and swine flu. Volunteers of various service organisations from different parts of the district put up stalls on the platform with charts and models on HIV/AIDS. Notwithstanding the fact that schools have been closed for summer vacation, many schoolchildren visited the train along with their teachers. Interestingly, women outnumbered men among the visitors on the first day. A few enthusiasts tested the condom vending machines arranged in the train and on the platform. Collector's call Inaugurating the exhibition earlier in the day, Krishna district Collector Peeyush Kumar called upon the educated people to take up the responsibility of creating awareness among the unlettered about the spread of HIV and contributing their mite to mitigate its spread. Mayor M.V. Ratna Bindu called upon the people to make better use of the facility and visit the special train without fail. Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu, Krishna DMHO U. Prasada Rao, Additional DMHO for AIDS T.V.S.N. Sastry, secretary of the IRCS Krishna district unit A. Sridhar Reddy and others were present. People could visit the train between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. on Friday.