A complete cure may not have been found for HIV/AIDS, the dreaded disease afflicting nations without discrimination across the globe, but what is more traumatic than the disease itself is the stigma attached to it. And, the consequent discrimination the victims face in society. A multi-pronged effort is on to fight this discrimination against HIV positive persons. As a first step, an awareness programme has been switched on. According to Dr.Mohammed Ali, District Programme Manager of the AIDS Prevention Control Unit, Coimbatore efforts are being taken to prevent the spread of the affliction. And, the Project for Prevention of Transmission from Parent to Child makes sure that screening is done. Those involved in the preventive drive say that though mandatory, the pregnant woman/husband or relatives are convinced of the need for screening to ensure that the infection is not passed on to the child. Teams working on HIV awareness point out that in the event of the “to-be-mother” being tested positive the caesarean procedure is resorted to in order to prevent transmission through ruptures during the delivery. The positive mother is administered Neverapin pills and the child is given Neverapin drops within 72 hours to prevent a fresh case of infection, according to Dr.Mohammed Ali. The 26 Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres in the district on an average, screen over 1,200 pregnant mothers. In October, 1,964 women were screened and three of them tested positive. Daniel, Project Manager of Centre for Advocacy and Research says that the public are being sensitised against discrimination. Rather than doctors and professionals sensitising the people where there could be very little acceptance, CFAR is roping in the community to make them campaign against discrimination. For the first time, a gram sabha meeting discussed the measures through which people could be educated to end complaints of discrimination. A college in Coimbatore has started a programme titled SMS, i.e., “Students Message to Society”. The effort is on to dispel misconceptions so that people would be willing to let their house on rent for HIV positive persons. In order to involve the community to fight discrimination, CFAR conducted a programme in Madurai during Deepavali where the self help group of HIV positive persons prepared sweets and savouries and the students took part in the festival. In Bangalore, a group of positive persons are running a restaurant and in Coimbatore a group of transgenders are running a food stall vending Biriyani. Patronage for such ventures only indicated that there is a transformation in the mindset of the people, thus making the fight against discrimination easier. Police officials, however, say there has not been any complaint of discrimination so far. Workers say that it could be because people are either not aware of discrimination and their right to fight back. Probably, people are not turning up with complaints of discrimination because of the fear of getting identified. There are cases where discrimination is concealed such as hospitals turning down positive persons' citing lack of facilities to treat them.