SERIOUS Parvati Menon: ‘I like to go into the layers of the characters'    S. SHIVA KUMAR Parvati Menon, who is now three films old in Kannada, says she is a serious student of both literature as well as cinema Parvati Menon blossomed as an actress with the Tamil film, “Poo”. She shone in a role shorn of glamour playing a village lass yearning for the love of her childhood sweetheart. “Prithvi” is her third Kannada film and her second with Puneet which is a sign of approval and acceptance. A song is being shot in the sprawling Global Village. Difficult dance moves are being rehearsed and the uneven surface makes the lead pair miss their steps repeatedly. There's a sigh of relief when the umpteenth take is okayed. The interview: Is dancing the most difficult thing about acting? It is. Though I've trained in Bharathanatya for 12 years, when it comes to cinematic dance and a choreographer who does the steps perfectly I somehow lose the energy. I feel I can't do it. Songs are a part of movies but dance is not something I enjoy. I like songs done in montage. You started as a TV anchor. Would you recommend that to a wannabe actor just to get rid of camera shyness? No. I did a couple of sitcoms before films and I realise now that I wasn't scared of the camera. I enjoyed the attention. I was a natural as an anchor though my Malayalam was bad at that time. I did not take it as a stepping stone to cinema. But it's a good way of getting noticed. That's true. I didn't have to get a portfolio done or knock on doors. I did have to audition for roles though. That way I don't know the troubles wannabe actors go through. Is acting in your genes? Well, my parents are inclined towards art. My father sings beautifully and plays the violin. My brother plays the guitar and I play the violin too. My mom was into Mohiniattam. They didn't turn professional. I remember I was in ninth standard when I told my dad I wanted to act. I was smitten by Sushmita Sen and I still am by the diva effect she has. I became serious only after my second film. Is acting a hobby? You are studying too. Is it insecurity? Not at all. Books have been my friends from when I can remember. Literature was supposed to be a stop gap before I pursued fashion designing, but then… My library is my haven with my collection of DVDs. I'm faithful to both. Most actors trained in Bharathanatya are over expressive with their eyes. Very true. I'll not deny that. Being an actor requires me to do physical exercises to control every muscle in my body. The control has to be subconscious or it'll look artificial. I have been able to control it of late but it's evident when I dance. It's the Bharathanatya training. I guess I have to separate the two. You played a ‘plain Jane' in Poo. You must be having a tough time convincing people that they can be glamorous too. I'm not very sure about that. As a person I'm shabby and least bothered about my appearance. I like awards but the pressure to look ‘prim and propah' is I think unnecessary. It was my idea not to go to a parlour for six months till I finished “Poo”. I stopped listening to music and spoke only in Tamil. These were small steps at internalising. I'm careful about my feet but ran barefoot in the movie. I like the way I was raw and unsophisticated in the film. This is your third Kannada film, but I heard you've turned down a few big ones. I cannot do something which I don't believe in. So when I get a call saying I have five songs to be shot abroad and seven scenes with the superstar the first thing I ask is who the director is. They don't mention the name which I feel is disrespectful. It's a gut feeling which tells me that the common goal is not about making a good film. I also don't like a narration over the phone. I like to ask a lot of questions. I don't want to be part of a film which I don't believe in at the end of the day. I love cinema. I'll perfect my art form. I'm in awe of the whole process. I don't want to be forty and regret what I've done. What's this about learning Kannada and dubbing yourself? It's something I get a kick out of. When I started anchoring I didn't know Malayalam well because I did my schooling in Kendriya Vidyalaya and my friends were Northies. I can speak Hindi and English effortlessly. I learnt to read Malayalam to improve my diction. I'm learning French too. Learning Tamil or Kannada is a step towards knowing the character. I'm sure the character I play thinks in the language she speaks. After that it's the director's prerogative because he has to like my voice. So how do you do the balancing act between acting and literature? I think they complement each other. I don't come from a film background. I wasn't even an avid moviegoer. You should watch my first film called “Out Of Syllabus”. That's real bad acting. We were all newcomers and I was curious about this acting business. I realised that acting was not easy at all. I like to go into the layers of the characters. I never trivialise cinema. I'm a slow but voracious reader. I get a kick out of both.