Social stigma and lack of proof of identity are forcing transgenders to lead a life in seclusion. Despite several pleas and protests, social acceptance eludes the community. This is forcing most of them to take up sex work and begging to earn a living. According to Rajesh, head of Sahodharan, an NGO working on Transgender rights in Puducherry, there are 1, 234 transsexuals registered in the region. Most of them have been deserted and driven out by their families as alternate sexuality is seen as taboo. Lacking proof of identity, which is vital for finding jobs and pursuing higher education, such individuals often turn to prostitution to make a living, he said. The community has been pressing for ration cards and voter identification cards for a long time. Though the Election Commission of India, in 2009, allowed eunuchs and transsexuals to register under the ‘others' category, not many have received the cards. Mr. Rajesh said that even in the ongoing census enumeration has no provision for transsexuals to register under the category of alternate sexuality. “The forms have only male or female. When I told the enumerator that I am neither and don't want to register under these categories, he said no other provision is available. A lot of us have abstained from giving the details due to this humiliation,” he said. Transsexuals also face discrimination at home. “Even if our parents accept us, our siblings find us disgusting. They keep nudging us to leave home because they say it would be difficult to get married with a transsexual at home,” said Ganga. She is forced to act as a male and wear male clothes due to coercion by parents. Transsexuals are usually charged twice the rate when they seek homes for rent. Also, their stay in a particular house is short-lived as people start complaining to the landlords. “People say that their children will get spoiled if we live in their vicinity and so we are usually thrown out,” said Jeniffer. Employment opportunities are meagre for the community and most of them are forced to feign as male or female. But invariably the co-workers identify them and continuously abuse them verbally. Even doctors and nurses in hospitals, who are supposed to understand their issues better, abuse them when they seek treatment asking them why they had turned into such “disgusting beings” when they can be “normal”. The members said that they are constant victims of police extortions. They said that even when they make complaints of abuse to the police, their complaints are never registered. The community is also highly vulnerable to HIV infections due to clients forcing them to have unprotected sex. Poverty, they said, forces them to heed to this demand. Mr. Rajesh said that though most schemes prevalent in Tamil Nadu are replicated in Puducherry, schemes protecting transgender rights alone seem to miss the lawmakers' eyes. He further said that even though the Chief Minister of Puducherry met them personally and heard their grievances, nothing fruitful has emerged. Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy said that a meeting with the social welfare department officials will be held next week to exclusively discuss the grievances of transgenders and measures to fulfil their demands will worked out.