Development of society: (Clockwise from top left) A book on ‘inclusive development' being released at a national conference in Bishop Heber College; Kanaka Bashyam, Principal, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College, addressing a seminar on ‘Cyber Feast;' a workshop in progress at Periyar E.V.R. College ; NCC unit of National College taking out an awareness rally on anti-female foeticide. P. C. Thenmozhi, Superintendent of Police, Civil Supplies CID, Madurai Zone, (second from left) at the alumnae meet of Holy Cross College; Sapling being given to a volunteer at a camp organised by St. Joseph's Polytechnic College at Tirumayam near Pudukottai.    The Department of Social Work of Bishop Heber College organised a UGC-sponsored national conference on ‘Inclusive development – a social science perspective.' R. Dakshinamoorthy, Deputy Director, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy, Bharathidasan University, inaugurated the conference. John Bates, former Associated Professor and Head, Department of Social Work, Care and Justice, Liverpool Hope University, UK, spoke on the role of the professional social workers and social scientists in voicing out the needs and rights of the vulnerable. M. Marcus Diepen Boominathan, Principal, presided. A. Relton, Head, Department of Social Work, presented an overview of the conference. As many as 191 papers were presented on 15 different themes. P. Ilango, Professor and Head, Department of Social Work, Barathidasan University, delivered the valedictory address. A book on ‘inclusive development' by Professor A. Relton was released by P. Manoharan, Bursar of Bishop Heber College. *** The Department of Computer Science of Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College in Tiruchi organised a one-day UGC-sponsored seminar on ‘Cyber Feast.' Kanaka Bashyam, Principal, who presided over the programme, said that the objective of the seminar was to update the knowledge on network security. H. Parveen Begum, Head, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, MAM College of Engineering and Technology, delivered the keynote address. He spoke about encryption, decryption and explained about the need to protect and secure data. A quiz programme was conducted. K.S. Rathnamala, Head, Department of Computer Science, spoke. *** The Training and Placement Cell of Periyar E.V.R. College organised a two-day workshop on ‘Personality Development.' The workshop was sponsored by the UGC and IIPM, Bangalore. Rethneswar Banerjee and C. Vivek of IIPM, Bangalore, who were the resource persons, provided training to the students. K. Rajeswari, Principal, presided. R. Kannappa, Professor and Coordinator of the cell, and Professor Pazha Gouthaman, spoke. *** The NCC unit of National College organised a rally to create awareness on anti-female foeticide. Sarathkumar, Cadet Under Officer, read out a pledge about anti-female foeticide. K. Anbarasu, Principal, flagged off the rally that started from the college. He appreciated the NCC cadets for their commitment to public interest and community development. The rally led by Flt.Lt. R. Sundhararaman, Flight Commander, 3 (TN), Air Sqn (Tech), NCC, National College, went through railway junction and head post office and reached the college premises. *** The meeting of the Alumnae Association of Holy Cross College was held at the college premises. P. C. Thenmozhi, Superintendent of Police, Civil Supplies CID, Madurai Zone, was the chief guest. She released the news letter ‘In touch' and Sr. Sarguna, Principal, received the first copy. Ms. Thenmozhi, an alumna of the Chemistry Department, delivered a speech on ‘women empowerment.' Mala Venkatesh, Assistant Professor, Saranathan College of Engineering, spoke on ‘role of humour in life.' Rev. Fr. Paul, Assistant Professor, Department of Visual Communication, spoke on ‘ways to lead a happy life.' L. Jenitra of Commerce Department presented a report. *** The Pavendar Bharathidasan Polytechnic College, Mathur, organised a day-long programme on ‘personality development' and interview skills. Owenima Decru'z, Public Administration Officer, V. Francis, Marketing Executive, Tiruchi Plus, gave a presentation on developing skills like group discussion, personality, attitude, aptitude, mock interview, body language, mannerism, dress code and conducted SWOT analysis. Over 200 students attended the programme. V. K. Raman, Principal, stressed the importance of value-added courses. *** The Red Ribbon Club (RRC) of M. A. M. College of Engineering and Technology, Siruganur, organised an awareness programme on HIV/AIDS. The topic of the programme was ‘celebrating life.' R. Jesariya Mary, RRC District Manager, Tiruchi, was the chief guest. She listed the mode of HIV transmission namely blood transfusion, use of unsterilized injection needles, from HIV affected mother to the child etc. M. A. Mohamed Nizam, Secretary and Correspondent, MAM Group of Institutions, stressed the need for awareness on HIV- AIDS among youngsters and spoke on the role of the students to educate the public. K. Kumar, Principal, offered felicitations. *** The Department of Civil Engineering of Oxford Engineering College organised a faculty development programme. G. Swaminathan, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, NIT-T, delivered inaugural address. K. Jayasankar, Senior Sales Manager, Toshni-tek International, Chennai, L. K. Balaji, Assistant Manager, Toshni-tek, G. Dhanalakshmi, Head, Department of Civil Engineering, offered felicitations. Faculty from various engineering colleges across the district participated. S. Aruchamy, Professor, School of Geo Science, Bharathidasan University, delivered the valedictory address. *** A day-long awareness cum motivation camp for NSS volunteers was organised under the auspices of St. Joseph's Polytechnic College at Tirumayam near Pudukottai recently. Fr. Lourde Xaiver, who was the resource-person, delivered a lecture on the impact of services on the development of society. M. Parthiban, a motivator for eye-donation, spoke on the importance of eye care and eye-donation. N. Jagadeesan, Principal, said that students should develop an attitude for rendering selfless service for the development of society. M. Veerappan, an advocate, delivered a lecture on ‘law and rights.' Tree saplings were distributed to students. *** Contributed by K. Subramanian, G. Prasad and Syed Muthahar Saqaf