District Collector in-charge K.N. Raje has directed that an intense cleaning drive be undertaken to destroy mosquito breeding grounds and to ensure effective waste disposal and management in the district starting Friday, in the wake of the outbreak of epidemic fever. The drive will be focused around various establishments, public places, markets, bus stands, railway stations, educational institutions, residential quarters and hostels. Besides, health awareness campaigns and camps should be organised in coordination with various departments, she said while presiding over a meeting held at the district collectorate on Thursday to review the preventive works against epidemics. Another review meeting will be held at the collectorate on July 8. She said that with the reporting of 61 cases of fever, including a case of dengue fever, the mosquito eradication drive needs to be intensified. Fogging, spraying, destruction of mosquito breeding grounds and waste disposal should be carried out more efficiently. District Medical Officer K.T. Remani told the meeting that in view of monsoon-related disease prevention measures, enough medicines have been made available in all hospitals across the district besides facilitating diagnosis in all major hospitals. In addition to this, fever wards and fever clinics have been opened at taluk hospitals and primary health centres respectively. Arrangements have been made for collecting the throat swabs of those suspected of having A (HINI) at Perumbavur, Aluva, Ernakulam General Hospital, and CA Hospital, Desam, she said. Separate wards for the treatment of A (H1NI) cases have also been readied at taluk hospitals. Those with symptoms like cold, cough, and fever could be suspected of A (H1N1). They should immediately seek medical treatment, the DMO said. The disease could assume serious proportions when detected among children, the aged, those suffering from acute diseases, heart patients, asthma patients, and HIV-AIDS-affected. As far as possible, contact with those with fever should be avoided. Since the immunity level in pregnant women was less, they should take extra care, Ms. Remani said. Additional DMOs R. Sudhakaran and Haseena Mohammed; Leprosy Officer Dhalia; Arogya Keralam district programme manager K.V. Beena; Homeo DMO in-charge Sukumaran; Ayurveda DMO T.T. Krishnakumar; education deputy director Anila George; district level officials of various departments, and municipal health inspectors attended the meeting.