City-based NGO Vasavya Mahila Mandali (VMM) plans to host its 40th anniversary celebrations in a grand fashion on December 15. Union Minister of State for Human Resource Development D. Purandeswari will be the chief guest on the occasion, while Minister for Secondary Education K. Parthasarathy, Vijayawada MP Lagadapati Rajagopal, MLAs Devineni Umamaheswara Rao, Malladi Vishnu, Yelamanchili Ravi and Velampalli Srinivas, ZP Chairman K. Nageswara Rao, Project Director of Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society (APSACS) R.V. Chandravadan, Krishna district Collector Peeyush Kumar and chairperson of SAARC Chamber Women V.L. Indira Dutt will grace the occasion. Former MP and president of the VMM Chennupati Vidya will preside over the function. The theme of the celebrations is ‘Marching ahead with pro-active humanism and professionalism'. “The celebrations, which will take place on the premises of the VMM near Benz Circle, will unfold a saga of the ‘why' and ‘how' of the VMM's existence,” Ms. Vidya told a press conference on Tuesday. A film titled ‘Spoorthi' will be released, besides launch of a souvenir ‘Vasavya: The service that speaks'. The book is a compilation of opinions of people from various walks of life who have been closely associated with the VMM. A photo exhibition depicting the evolution of the voluntary organisation in a phased manner over the last 40 years will be yet another highlight. “Inspired by the ideas of equality, liberty and secularism, a handful of women like Ms. Vidya, Mythri and Hemalatha Lavanam, founded the VMM in 1969 with the support of the humanist and atheist leaders Gora and his wife Saraswathi Gora,” said G. Rashmi, executive secretary of the VMM. “The vision of the VMM is to bring about a progressive transformation in the lives of women through dissemination of knowledge, promotion of education, implementation of health programmes, improvement of skills and overall empowerment of women by enabling them to play a positive role in decision-making,” said Ms. Vidya. P. Deeksha, medical director of the VMM, was also present.