Eye hospitals here are into an intensive campaign to educate people on the benefits of eye donation. Harvesting corneas from deceased persons or brain dead accident victims and how these are transplanted in those who are born blind or lost vision later form the essence of the annual drive. Aravind Eye Hospital and Sankara Eye Centre have said that apart from their daily focus on educating the public on restoring vision through eye donation, special efforts in the form of campaign through the media and the conduct of seminars mark the intensive drive during the Eye Donation Fortnight observed every year from August 25 to September 8. Aravind Eye Hospital said that many pledges were not ending up in actual donation. Consultant in Cornea and Refractive Services at Aravind Eye Hospital K.S. Siddharthan said in a press release that a number of people pledged their eyes at the hospital on birthdays, wedding anniversaries and other days important to their families. But, not even one out of 100 pledges translated into donation. Some beliefs and misconceptions impeded donation. Despite efforts by voluntary organisations and Government agencies to increase awareness among the people for over a decade, the huge gap between demand and supply persisted. Only 27,000 corneas were harvested as against the demand of two lakh a year. Of these, only 47 per cent of the corneas were transplanted as the quality of the others was found inadequate for transplantation. Dr. Siddharthan said the Hospital Cornea Retrieval Programme (HCRP) should be implemented effectively. Eyes collected from cases of deaths in hospitals had better quality than those done at home. This was because the removal was done in sterile conditions, the eyes preserved well and transported without much delay. A press release from Sankara Eye Centre has said that the Central Government had called for the observance in order to increase awareness on the need for eye donation and eye donation pledges by the people. Though the first eye bank in the country was opened in 1945, only 30,000 corneas were being transplanted now. India lagged behind even Sri Lanka when it came to eye donation. Even as there was focus on stepping up the drive, hospitals also pointed out that the eyes of persons who had HIV/AIDS or sepsis and hepatitis could not be transplanted. The eyes of persons without communicable diseases could be donated. Even those of persons who had diabetes, asthma and hypertension could be give donations.