For the first time in India's history, transgender people — those who are neither male nor female or are both — can stand up and be counted in the national headcount that begins on February 9. Recording the exact gender identity of the citizens will be an important feature of the second phase of Census 2011 that will be held from February 9 to 28, across the country simultaneously. The first phase — house-listing — was undertaken a few months back. The third phase, to begin in June next year, will record the caste identities of the populace. Gender identity will be one of the 29 data to be collected by the enumerators from individuals. Unlike the conventional “Male” and “Female” columns, this time there will be an additional “Others” column to record transgender identity. It would entirely be up to the individuals to identify their gender status; there would be no compulsion. India is home to millions of transgender people who live on the margins of mainstream society. In many States, they face social ostracism though there are certain regions where they are revered. Because of social stigma, a large number of transgender people opt to live in communities and work in groups. They are called Hijra (pronounced ‘hijda') and various other names, many of which the community members consider derogatory. The huge majority of the transgender population in India is illiterate are not formally employed. American Psychological Association defines transgender thus: “Transgender is an umbrella term used to describe people whose gender identity (sense of themselves as male or female) or gender expression differs from that usually associated with their birth sex. Many transgender people live part-time or full-time as members of the other gender. Broadly speaking, anyone whose identity, appearance, or behaviour falls outside of conventional gender norms can be described as transgender. However, not everyone whose appearance or behaviour is gender-atypical will identify as a transgender person.” The authorities' decision to allot a category of their own for trandsgender people in the census echoes a remarkable social empowerment gained by the community following consistent work by NGOs and anti-HIV initiatives in India in the recent years. The community has been asserting their rights and making their presence felt all over the country. The Tamil Nadu government has granted them identification cards that allow them to get ration cards and other benefits. In Kerala, however, the community is hidden because of the social stigma. Many transgenders, as other sexuality minorities in the State, either hide their identities or flee to Karnataka, Tamil Nadu or Mumbai.