On an average, every year close to two lakh units of blood is collected in the 53 blood banks of State capital. And yet, large numbers of blood bags expire before reaching the needy on time. Contrastingly, the average annual demand for blood in twin cities is just one lakh. Despite supply exceeding the demand, a large portion of the blood collected goes waste. The demand and supply scenario of blood throughout the State is quite different. According to official figures, close to eight lakh units of blood are collected every year in 233 blood banks of the State while the total demand is pegged at 8.5 lakh units. The disparity between demand and supply of blood continues, thanks to the inefficient blood distribution system. Estimates suggest that there is a need of about eight million units of blood every year in India and out of this only half of the blood units are being obtained by voluntary blood donors. Rest all comes from replacement blood donation usually from relatives and sometimes even from paid donors. Acceptance of blood from professional donors is strictly prohibited because that could lead to transmission of AIDS or Hepatitis. Lack of synergy between donors, blood banks, regulators, hospitals and receivers is leading to wastage of blood because of no takers and contrastingly sever shortage of blood in case of emergencies like accidents or natural disasters. This man-made shortage pushes the prices of blood through the roof, as blood banks put a ‘price' on blood during emergencies. For a 250 ml blood bag, depending on the blood group and quality of the blood bank, the cost hovers anywhere from Rs. 800 to Rs. 2,000. Experts point out that lack of coordination is leading to criminal wastage of blood whenever voluntary organisations conduct mega blood donation camps. Nearly 30 per cent of the blood collected during such camps should be sent to Government Hospitals. But that seldom happens. Doctors estimate that 50 to 60 per cent of the blood collected in such donation camps is wasted because the blood does not reach the needy on time or deficiency in storage facilities. Instead of organising mega donation camps, many advocate the need to maintain a blood donor registry and issuing unique donor identification cards. At present, it is up to the individual blood banks to maintain a list of blood donors. But several blood bank officers maintain that a comprehensive donor registry will go a long way in filling the gap between demand and supply.