Honour: Students of MSS Wakf Board College with the trophy won by them at the Madurai Kamaraj University champion college kabaddi tournament. (Right) Speakers at the inaugural session of a workshop on ‘Examination reforms' conducted at Thiagarajar College of Preceptors.    The Soil Plant Analytical Advisory Centre of the Department of Soil and Environment, Agricultural College and Research Institute, organised a five-day training programme on ‘Soil-water analysis for suitable agro advisory services.'A.R. Mohamed Haroon, Head of the Department, highlighted the importance of soil health and irrigation water quality for enhancing agricultural productivity. The training was organised to improve the analytical abilities of the participants and build up their entrepreneurship skills in establishing their own soil testing laboratories and integrate the components of biofertilizers and vermicompost production and other agro-based ventures to enhance income, he added. B. Bakiyathu Saliha, Coordinator, outlined the activities of SPAAC and the training schedule, which included hands-on training in soil-water analysis for various parameters, evolving suitable site specific technologies and fertigation techniques. P. Saravana Pandian, Associate Professor of Soil Science, welcomed the gathering. About 20 participants from different parts of Madurai and Sivaganga districts participated. A lecture on ‘Personality development for adolescents' was delivered by G. Ranganathan, education and human resource development consultant, at a meeting organised by the Department of Human Development, Home Science College and Research Institute. P. Banumathi, Dean, welcomed the gathering. Dr. Ranganathan, said that people did not lack strength. But they lacked will. Hence, the will power must be built up. A good personality was also essential, along with education and wealth, he said. S. Amutha, Head of the Department, proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Department of MCA of the American College organised a one-day pedagogy programme on ‘Modern methods of teaching.' The Principal, T. Chinnaraj Joseph Jaikumar, said that students and faculty members should be updated on the emerging trends in information technology and firmly implanted on concepts to face a competitive world. T. G. Sambanthan of National Institute of Technical Teacher Training and Research spoke on network-based operating systems and stressed the paradigm shift needed in teaching-learning process. He highlighted the problem-based approach and evaluated different models for analysing students' performance. T. Joshva Devadoss welcomed the gathering and E. Monica Sushil Cynthia proposed a vote of thanks. *** Red Ribbon Club of the Madura College organised a training programme for student volunteers. V. Sriman Narayanan, NSS Programme Officer, welcomed the gathering. P. Krishnan explained the causes for HIV/AIDS and suggested measures to prevent the infection. Red Ribbon Club District Manager A. Palanichamy and District Managers of Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram, Coimbatore and Virudhunagar delivered lectures. R. Gopi, Programme Officer, Red Ribbon Club, proposed a vote of thanks. The Principal, T.V. Krishnamoorthy, and Vice Principal P. Ramachandran distributed certificates to the participants. C. Sinduja proposed a vote of thanks. *** A community college, to offer free six-month certificate course, was inaugurated at Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women by S. Setupati, Director, Latha Mathavan Polytechnic College, recently. The college will offer certificate courses in computer hardware and networking for school dropouts below 35 years of age, in association with Latha Mathavan Polytechnic College. A. P. Arasi, Principal, presided. T. Sarala Thembavani of the Department of Chemistry welcomed the gathering and S. P. Jayamaduravalli of Department of Physics proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Department of Physics of Government Arts College, Melur, organised a national conference on ‘Renewable energy for rural applications.' A total of 120 participants from various educational institutions in southern states of India participated. A. John Peter, organiser, welcomed the gathering. S. Kalimuthu, Principal, delivered the presidential address. The proceedings of the conference containing 20 research papers was released by the Principal. It was received by N. Periathambi. P. Muthusubramanian, former Chairperson, School of Energy Sciences, Madurai Kamaraj University, emphasised the need to promote solar-thermal, solar-electrical, wind and biomass-based applications for sustainable rural development. R. Meena Devi, Head, Department of Chemistry, Ultra College of Engineering and Technology for Women, delivered a talk on ‘Biomass for rural development.' I. Kulandaisamy, Head, Department of Physics, Arul Anandar College, spoke on ‘Renewable energy for sustainable development.' Research papers on applications of renewable energy for rural development were presented by students, scholars and scientists at the conference. R.V. Jeba Rajasekhar proposed a vote of thanks. *** A seminar on ‘Commonwealth Fiction' was organised by the PG Department of English of M.S.S. Wakf Board College. A. Meera Mohideen, Head, PG Department of English, recalled how the British withdrawal from its former empire resulted in the development of newly formed independent nations. The assertion of independent cultural and political identity led to the growth of the Commonwealth Literature, he added. A. Soundara Rajan, the resource person, analysed the contributions made by writers from Africa, India, Canada, Pakistan, Jamaica, Japan and New Zealand. He delved in detail on the various themes handled, such as the problem of immigrants, clash between tradition and modernity, contrast between poverty and wealth and cultural ironies. Jeyalakshmi, a PG student, presented a paper on Bapsi Sidwa's Ice Candy Man. Captain Syed A.R. Ibrahim welcomed the gathering. Prabu proposed a vote of thanks. Students of the college won the Madurai Kamaraj University champion college kabaddi tournament for the tenth consecutive year. The Adithanar Memorial Trophy was presented to the team by Sathiah, Physical Education Director, MK University. The team members were congratulated by the college secretary Mohamed Jalaludeen and the Principal. *** A State-level workshop on ‘Examination reforms in B. Ed. Programme' was inaugurated at Thiagarajar College of Preceptors by A. R. Veeramani, Registrar, Tamil Nadu Teachers' Education University. Dr. Veeramani highlighted the need for examination reforms, sources of errors in evaluation system and subjectivity in evaluation. L. Saraswathi, Principal, outlined the objectives of the two-day workshop. S. Vijayaraghavan, Administrative Officer, spoke about grading system, fault finding, teaching therapy, case method, open book system and teaching practice as a project in evaluation in B.Ed. course. K. Krishnan, Head, Department of Education, Madurai Kamaraj University, explained the concepts of measurement, assessment, evaluation, internal assessment and assessment of practical components and theory papers. V. Rajeshwari, Professor of Education, Mother Teresa Women's University, delivered the valedictory address. *** Compiled by S. Annamalai