ENHANCING SKILLS: Participants at a workshop on communication attending a mock interview at Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Education.   | Photo Credit:  The NSS units of Coimbatore Institute of Technology organised a seven-day camp at the villages of Sengathurai, Kadambadi, Kumarapalayam and Aeronagar. The volunteers were involved in cleaning the village roads and common areas and planting saplings. Programmes to create awareness on various social issues were also organised. The NSS units of Coimbatore Institute of Engineering and Information Technology conducted an eye awareness programme in association with Vasan Eye Care Hospital. Tamil Selvan, Centre Head of the hospital, addressed the volunteers on eye care, eye-related diseases and preventive methods. More than 300 volunteers attended the programme. The NSS unit, Post-Graduate Department of Social Work and Red Ribbon Club of Sree Narayana Guru College observed World AIDS Day by conducting an awareness programme at K.G. Chavadi and Walayar. Students distributed pamphlets explaining the causes and prevention of AIDS. The first year students of the Social Work Department of RVS College of Arts and Science conducted a rural camp at Kallapalayam village. Student organised programmes based on themes like child empowerment, women empowerment, etc. Representatives from GKNM Hospital addressed the villagers on the diseases occurring commonly in children and the importance of consuming nutritious food. Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Education organised a two-day workshop for school teachers on “Pedagogy of English Communication”. S. Venkateswaran, professor, Regional Institute of English, Bangalore, inaugurated the workshop and spoke on the topic. He demonstrated the ways and means of incorporating communication training as part of the English class in school. Youth Red Cross was inaugurated at Avinashilingam University for Women. A.S. Noel Jayaraj, representative, St. John's Ambulance, stressed the need for learning the skill of first aid and donating blood voluntarily. He also demonstrated administering of first aid in times of electric shock, fire accidents, falls, etc. Vice-Chancellor of the university Saroja Prabhakaran presided. A lecture on Communicative English was organised at KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology. R. Saravana Selvan, associate professor, Department of English, Bharathiar University, was the resource person. Pointing out that listening, speaking, reading and writing were the main components of communication, he added that proper pronunciation and word building were necessary for effective communication. The Department of Commerce of Sri Krishna Arts and Science College organised a conclave on Online Trading of Mutual Funds. Pradeep Yuvaraj, Executive Director, Finerva Financial Solution Private Limited, was the chief guest. He explained to the students about concept of stock market, risk of investments, importance of joint investment, mutual fund as a perfect risk bearer, concept of net asset value, etc. Sri Eshwar College of Engineering observed World AIDS Day. The events of the day were organised by the NSS units, Youth Red Cross, Red Ribbon Club and the Primary Health Centre, Nallattipalayam. The students conducted an AIDS awareness rally. A blood donation camp was also organised. More than 50 students and staff donated blood. The Department of Botany, Bharathiar University, organised a workshop on “Scientific Validation of Traditional Herbal Medicine”. R.B. Srivastava, Director and Secretary, Life Sciences Research Board, Defence Research and Development Organisation, inaugurated the workshop and spoke on the challenges, threats and regulatory requirements for the Indian system of medicine. Vice-Chancellor C. Swaminathan presided. The Department of Management, Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology, and Altacit Global jointly organised a seminar on Intellectual Property Rights. Executives from industry and students participated in the seminar. Sessions dealt with information on Trademark, Patents, Copyright, Design mark, geographical indications, international registrations, procedure for registration, etc. Akshaya College of Engineering and Technology observed the Energy Conservation Week. N. Chandran, Superintending Engineer, Tamil Nadu Electricity Board, Udumalpet, spoke on wasting electricity by leaving lights on. Also, metres which were never calibrated after installation and never maintained also led to wastage of energy. This leads to incorrect reading and contributes to national waste. Info Institute of Engineering organised a memorial lecture in memory of Founder Chairman K.K. Veluchamy. K. Puhazhendi, Director, New Product Development, Perfint Health Care Private Limited, Chennai, spoke on “Knowing Now is Better than Never”. He stressed the importance of knowing oneself, engaging others and the environment. He also said that life should be the driving force of career and not the other way around. Sree Ramu College of Arts and Science conducted its 12th graduation day recently. A release from the College said 255 undergraduate and 12 post-graduate students received their degrees at the function. College Principal B. Ganesan welcomed the gathering and Secretary S. Ramasamy presided over. Sengodan, secretary and principal, SNR Sons College was the chief guest, the release added. Red Ribbon Club of Bharathiar University and NSS units of Sankara College of Science and Commerce recently conducted a seminar on AIDS awareness. A release from the College said Principal R. Selvakumaran presided over the function and R. Vaitheswaran, district director, Red Ribbon Club, was the guest of honour. He spoke on how the HIV virus spread and precautionary measures to be adopted. Pioneer College of Arts and Science in association with Bharathiar University conducted a seven-day NSS special camp. A release from the institution said NSS volunteers organised medical, veterinary, blood donation camps, consumer awareness programme and a trekking programme. More than 200 students participated in the camp. Ashwin Kaushik, J. Sri Vidhya Gowri and A.K. Naveenkumar, first year MBA students of S.N.R. Institute of Management Sciences, won a management game at URJITH 2010, the management meet conducted by GRG School of Management Studies. A release from the Institute said members of management, principal, secretary and faculty members appreciated the winners. ‘Micro Businesses for Inclusive Growth' was the topic of the international seminar the Guruvayurappan Institute of Management organised recently. A release from the Institute said Vipin Gupta, director, International Outreach, Simmons College, Boston, USA, inaugurated the seminar, in which seven papers were presented. Sujatha Krishnan, CEO, Suvai Ice Creams, Coimbatore, spoke on ‘Sustainability of Women-run Enterprises'. M. Palanivel and Sivasubramaniam from MSME, Coimbatore, also spoke. Kovai Kalaimagal College of Arts and Science's Department of Information Technology recently conducted a seminar. A release from the institution said J. Bharath delivered a lecture on software testing. Principal S. Natarajan presided over the function and C. Senbagavalli, HOD, welcomed the gathering. Dean G. Angaiah offered his felicitations. Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College, Pollachi, recently conducted a computer expo. A release from the College said S. Venkatesh, chairman, STC, inaugurated the expo, which was organised by UG Department of Computer Science, Computer Applications and PG Department of Computer Science. B. Antony Divas, Project Manager, Infosys Technologies, Bangalore, evaluated hardware and software projects and selected the best. Students from colleges in and around Pollachi participated in the event, the release added. NSS units of Rathinam College of Arts and Science conducted a seven-day special camp in Chokkanoor, Sattakalpudur and Muthugoundanur villages. A release from the College said 152 students participated in the camp and they were guided by three programme officers. College vice principal K. Vijayan and Chairman, Kinathukadavu panchayat, participated at the valedictory function, the release added. Department of Catering Science and Hotel Management of Nehru Arts and Science College recently organised a seminar and workshop. A release from the College said Principal B. Anirudhan inaugurated the event on ‘Art of Bartending- cocktails and mocktails'. The release also said that the seminar helped the students understand the importance of alcohols and liquors and also the art of bartending. Bar tricks were also taught. Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science had its ‘Red Ribbon Club' inaugurated recently. A release from the College said K. Mahadevan, faculty, Coimbatore Medical College, spoke on AIDS and prevention methods. He also spoke on the role of RRC in combating AIDS, the release said and added that Principal S. Subramanian and Correspondent and Secretary Dhanalakshmi Jayachandran also participated. ‘Direct and Indirect Taxation in India – emerging issues' was the topic of the seminar the KCT Business School organised recently. A release from the institution said S.V. Devanathan, director of the School, welcomed the gathering. M. Ramji, vice president, Auditors' Association of South India, inaugurated the seminar and delivered the key-note address. Dr. N.G.P. College of Education recently organised Kamban Vizha. A release from the institution said Thavamani D. Palaniswami, secretary, Kovai Medical Centre and Research and Educational Trust, delivered the presidential address and spoke on the importance of Kamba Ramayanam. K. Murugesan, joint secretary, Kamban Kazhagam, Kovai, felicitated the gathering. Department of Information Technology and Computer Technology of Dr. SNS Rajalakshmi College of Arts and Science conducted a seminar. A release from the College said resource persons from Sennovate Infotech (India) Ltd. spoke on RDBMS and Oracle. Karunya University inked a memorandum of understanding with Lethbridge University, Canada, to establish academic and co-operative relations between the faculty of management of both the universities. It will involve working on joint research projects, organising work study programmes, conferences, technology transfer and technical co-operation. Under the provisions of a separate MoU signed between the School of Graduate Studies and Faculty of Management of both the universities, the MBA students of Karunya University will be given an opportunity to obtain admission to the Master of Science in Management Degree programme from the University of Lethbridge. The MoU was signed by Paul P. Appasamy, Vice-Chancellor of the university, and Bill Cade, President, and Lindsay Murray, Dean, Faculty of Management, of Lethbridge University. AMUTHA KANNAN AND KARTHIK MADHAVAN