The State government on Monday transferred some IAS officers. According to an official release, Rameshram Mishra, Secretary to Governor, is transferred and posted as Principal Secretary to Government, Transport Department, in one of the cadre posts of Special Commissioner in the place of G. Santhanam, holding additional charge. Shambhu Kallolikar, Project Director/Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society, is transferred and posted as Secretary to Governor, in the cadre post in the place of Mr. Mishra. M. Kutralingam, Principal Secretary to Government, School Education Department, is transferred and posted as Principal Secretary to Government, Planning & Development Department, in one of the cadre post of Special Commissioner in the place of Anita Praveen, Secretary to Government, Planning & Development Department, who is transferred and posted as Secretary to Government (Expenditure), Finance Department, in one of the cadre post of Secretary to Government. D. Jothi Jagarajan, Secretary to Government, Public & Rehabilitation Department, is transferred and posted as Secretary to Government, School Education Department in a cadre post of Secretary to Government in the place of Mr. Kutralingam. S. Karuthiah Pandian, Special Secretary to Government, Home, Prohibition and Excise Department, is transferred and posted as Secretary to Government, Public & Rehabilitation Department. K.S. Muthuswaamy, Secretary, Tamil Nadu State Information Commission, is transferred and posted as Additional Secretary to Government, Health and Family Welfare Department, in one of the cadre posts in the place of R. Selvaraj, Deputy Secretary to Government Health and Family Welfare Department, who is transferred and posted as Secretary, Tamil Nadu State Information Commission. The services of Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana, Project Director, Tsunami Project Implementation Unit, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, are placed at the disposal of the Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited for appointment as its Managing Director in the place of K. Ashok Vardhan Shetty, holding additional charge. Mr. Makwana shall hold the post of Project Director, Tsunami Project Implementation Unit, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department in full additional charge. Mr. Ashok Vardhan Shetty, Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, shall function as Chairman, Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited. Ka. Balachandran, formerly Additional Registrar of Co-operative Societies, on return from training abroad, is posted to as Commissioner of Civil Supplies & Consumer Protection in the place of R. Sivakumar, who is transferred and posted as Secretary to Government, Tamil Development, Religious Endowments and Information Department, in one of the cadre post of Secretary to Government in the place of G. Muthusamy.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 12:14:46 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/IAS-officers-transferred/article15905404.ece   © The Hindu 