Preventive measure: (Clockwise from top left) Awareness programme on ‘importance of vaccination' organised by Department of Microbiology of Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan College of Arts and Science for Women, Perambalur; students of Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute at Navalur Kuttapattu in Tiruchi district taking out a rally on ‘communal harmony;' NSS unit of Cauvery College giving saplings to the teachers of Government School, Tiruvellarai; sapling planting campaign at Pavendar Bharadhidasan Institute of Information Technology, Mathur; a national-level technical symposium in progress organised at M.A.M. College of Engineering in Tiruchi; S. Raghavan, Professor, National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, being honoured by M. Subramanian, Chairman, Oxford Engineering College, at a seminar in Tiruchi.    The Department of Microbiology of Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan College of Arts and Science for Women, Perambalur, organised an awareness programme on ‘importance of vaccination.' P. Gajalakshmi, Head, Department of Microbiology, underlined the importance of vaccination for strengthening the immune system to ward off infectious diseases like tuberculosis, polio, tetanus, measles, diphtheria and chicken pox. A. Bharathi, Lecturer, explained the vaccination schedules for children, pregnant women and elderly. She stressed on administration of Gardasil to women aged between 18 and 26, to prevent uterus cancer. A. Srinivasan, Founder Chairman of Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Educational Institutions, presided. R. M. Meenakshi, Legal Advisor, Anusha Bhaskar, Principal, and S.H. Afroze, Vice-Principal, spoke. *** Students of Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute at Navalur Kuttapattu in Tiruchi district took out a rally on ‘communal harmony.' The students carried placards to create awareness on communal harmony and national integration. V. Jayabal, Dean, inaugurated the rally. The NSS volunteers of the college raised funds for the Flag Day. V. Lakshmanan, Staff Advisor, and A. Ramesh Kumar, NSS Programme Officer, participated. *** The NSS wing of Cauvery College for Women planted 500 saplings on the Pulivalam to Musiri Highway, to sensitise students on global warming. The NSS unit has been taking immense interest in increasing the forest cover in the adopted village Tiruvellarai. Over 100 saplings were given to students of the Government School at Tiruvellarai. The saplings were provided by Bharathidasan University. The NCC cadets also distributed 270 dictionaries to the school students. NSS Programme Officers of the college, G. Kanaga, A. R. Gomathi, Neela, Sahaya Jenitha and Rita Shantha Kumar, participated in the sapling planting campaign. *** The Youth Red Cross (YRC) and Red Ribbon Club (RRC) members of Pavendar Bharathidasan Institute of Information Technology, Mathur, planted 60 saplings in the college campus. Viswanathan, YRC Organiser, Pudukottai, inaugurating the activities of YRC for the academic year, spoke on the origin and growth of the Red Cross Society and the seven principles of YRC. R. Jesaria Mary, RRC Manager, Tiruchi , spoke about prevention of AIDS. M.R. Arun, Managing Trustee, Uma Arun, Academic Director and A. Manimaran, Principal, spoke. *** The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering of M.A.M. College of Engineering in Tiruchi organised a national-level symposium on ‘e-Mission 2KX.' P. Veerendra, Academic Relationship Manager of Wipro Technologies, was the chief guest. He insisted the students to have innovative ideas, update their knowledge and communication skills. Various events like quiz, paper presentation, project presentation, poster designing, marketing, tech talk and circuit debugging were conducted. Students from 22 colleges participated. M.A. Maluk Mohammed, Principal and V. Shanmugapriya, Head, Department of ECE, spoke. *** The Oxford Engineering College organised a two-day AICTE-sponsored national seminar on ‘Software Defined Radio.' The objective of the seminar was on improving the knowledge of the faculty members of engineering colleges in the emerging fields of communication and information technology. Eminent professors and scientists from reputed organisations addressed the seminar. M. Subramanian, Chairman, presided. He stressed the need for quality education in engineering colleges. S. Raghavan, Professor, National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, delivered the valedictory address. He shared his experience in designing various types of antennas and his visit to the microwave laboratory and digital classrooms of California University. Professor Raghavan and Mr. Subramanian distributed certificates to the participants. *** Vivekananda College of Arts and Science, Sirkazhi, won the best performance award in sports. The award was conferred upon R. Meenakshi, final year B Sc (Maths), for excellence in sports and games by the ‘Jayam Samuga Elaiyor Kalai Thodarbu Maiyam' of Tiruchi. The organisation has been engaged in encouraging outstanding sportspersons every year. Jagaratchagan of Jayam Samuga Elaiyor Kalai Thodarbu Maiyam; KV Radhakrishnan, Chairperson of the Vivekananda Educational Trust, and K. Ramakrishnan, Principal, lauded the student and the staff of the Physical Education Department. *** The Department of Microbiology of the Thanthai Hans Roever College, Perambalur, organised its association meeting. The function was inaugurated by K. Varadharaajen, Chairman of Roever Educational Institutions. A. Velmurugan of Nature Care and Yoga Research Centre, Perambalur, was the chief guest. He spoke about ‘Naturopathy.' He gave a presentation on natural foods and natural therapy for diseases like diabetes, kidney disorders, obesity, hypertension etc. He said naturopathy treatment has no side effects. Then he explained various asanas in yoga and its benefits. Swaminathan, Director, P. S. Joseph, Principal, and B. Anandharaj, Head, Department of Microbiology, offered felicitations. *** Compiled by P. V. Srividya in Nagapattinam , K. Subramanian and Olympia Shilpa Gerald in Tiruchi