HE CONJURED GEMS: T.E. Srinivasan pulls Madan Lal during his glorious unbeaten 112 for South Zone against North in a Duleep Trophy semifinal match of 1977 in Bangalore. — THE HINDU PHOTO ARCHIVE    Cricket in the State, and in the country, lost a colourful personality in the death of T.E. Srinivasan. Battling brain tumour for the past few years with exceptional equanimity, TE succumbed to a massive heart attack on Monday. He was 60. TE is survived by wife Mala and daughter Subha. A stylist with a consciously-cultivated gait — many viewed this as attempting to imitate his idol, M.L. Jaisimha — TE sparkled in an era when the game was valued more for the pleasure of playing it than for statistical achievements. TE exuded a spirit of nonchalance, regardless of the level of the competition. He attacked bowlers with rare relish, seeking every avenue to annihilate them. His strokes, especially on the front foot, were a treat to the eye and despair to the fieldsmen. He enjoyed hitting the ball on the rise, and invariably finished with an impeccable shot that mirrored his judgement and timing. Gregarious to the point of being brutally frank in his observations, TE was a born entertainer. Some remarks attributed to him on arrival in Australia are reckoned even today as hilarious. Figures cannot be the only yardstick in judging the quality of his batting. He earned the Test cap fairly late in the career against New Zealand in Auckland (29 and 19 runs) at the age of 31 in 1981. He figured in two ODIs against the Aussies and Kiwis in 1980-81. Born on October 26, 1950, Tirumalai Echambadi Srinivasan blossomed into a star at the Nungambakkam High School, and then in the collegiate competitions from Vivekananda College. He was catapulted to the national stage in the middle 70s after a brilliant century (112) for South Zone against North in the Duleep Trophy. Another scintillating knock of 129 for South in the Deodhar Trophy served as the passport for his entry into the arena of Test cricket. This knock earned for him a place in the national team for the tours of Australia and New Zealand. TE regaled his numerous fans with stroke-filled knocks in almost all the grounds in and around the city. In the city league he was a worthy performer, first for Aruna CC, then for MCC and India Pistons. In a first-class career spanning over a decade and half, TE had aggregated 3,487 runs in 75 matches at an average of 34.18. He was chosen as one of the Five Cricketers of the Year by Indian Cricket in 1978. After calling it quits in 1985, TE took to managing the India Pistons team for his employer, and even worked on a coaching manual, that was released by Kapil Dev. “He was a wonderful friend and human being, very charming and gregarious,” S. Venkatraghavan recalled. “He enjoyed his cricket as much as he enjoyed life. In my opinion, he was one of the best I have seen. His death is a great personal loss to me,” he added. “TE was very talented; he never got the chances to prove himself. There was never a dull moment when he was around,” remarked, V.V. Kumar. “A fun-loving person, good cricketer and a good human being,” is how former Test keeper, Bharath Reddy, responded to TE's demise. P. Mukund, former State cricketer, said, “TE deserved to have played more Tests. He was not given enough opportunities for the quality of cricket he played.” Bharath Kumar, TE's room-mate during several outstation matches, observed: “He had the special ability to turn some difficult moments for the team into one of fun and laughter with comments that lifted the sagging spirits in the dressing room.” N. Srinivasan, President, and members of the TNCA expressed their profound sorrow and grief on the passing away of TE.