The advent of news television channels has flared up tussle among newspapers photographers and channel cameramen, while covering events, particularly those involving celebrities and film stars. But just when things appear to settle down, they seem to get new competitors in the form of visitors trying to capture images of their favourite stars at different events. This came to light at the Fashion Yatra expo, where Telugu actress Bhumika Chawla was chief guest. Soon as she arrived at the venue, a battery of photographers and cameramen swarmed her to get the perfect shot. Amidst all this tussle and chaos, young visitors chipped in, to capture images of the actress in their mobiles. So much so, a visitor asked a cameraman to capture his image alongside the actress. “As it is we are having tough time in getting good visuals and you people too have joined us with your mobiles,” remarked an exasperated cameraman. Discrimination of HIV positive persons and children is usually seen at every level. NGOs that provide shelter, education and healthcare services to HIV positive orphan children frequently share their woes in finding an ideal shelter in twin cities. “When we tell somebody that we provide shelter, food and education to HIV orphans, they admire and shower encomiums on our work. But the minute we tell them that we are their neighbours, they protest that such children should not be in their neighbourhood. The change in the attitude is instant and this has forced us to shift our shelter home four times in the last one year,” a much harassed philanthropist from United States, who runs such a facility for HIV children in twin cities, said. Some of the television journalists brethren are sure are a challenged lot. This has been proved yet again recently when a reporter with a mike and a cameraman behind him decided to some investigative reporting. At the function organised to celebrate the National Sports Day on Sunday which was also legendary hockey player Dhyan Chand's birthday, the television reporter put the mike and camera on the face of an official and asked why the function was being organised! If that came as a mild shock to the official and others around including some ex-players, came the next question: “Who is Dyan Chand?!” That left them recoiling in horror. Inauguration of GHMC's marquee housing project at Abdullapurmet in Ranga Reddy district on Sunday should have been celebration time for all the officials concerned as well as the corporators. Yet, what was glaring at the handing over ceremony of houses to the beneficiaries was the absence of corporators from all parties. If Telugu Desam corporators could not make it because they were all rounded up and taken to Meerpet police station for trying to obstruct the Chief Minister's convoy demanding funds for the Municipal Corporation, it was not known why no one from the official ally-Majlis- failed to make it. The BJP contingent was absent so were most ruling party corporators. Congress floor leader K. Venkatesh said he was running temperature hence could not make it but there was no information about others ducking the event. When the question was posed to the Mayor, she remarked thus: “Invitations were sent so were messages to all”. “There were many marriages on that day. Even I had to attend my cousin's wedding but came to attend the programme,” she added, after a pause. Union Tourism Minister Selja Kumari was in the city the other day to launch Heritage Walk 2 from Charminar. A heritage walk it was to be, but quite a walk it turned out to be. Soon after the traditional flagging off ceremony, the Minister hurried towards the gate of the historic structure. Oh, the Minister's going to walk, so thought everyone and officials scurried behind her, scribes in tow. Ms. Selja, instead, coolly walked straight to her waiting car and drove away in the convoy, leaving heritage lovers high and dry. This coming after a two hour wait for her with State Tourism Minister J. Geeta Reddy and senior officials all eyeing their watches on a Sunday afternoon. What a walk, sir jee! S. SANDEEP KUMAR, M. SAI GOPAL, V.V. SUBRAHMANYAM, V.GEETANATH, YOGENDRA KALAVALAPALLI