Rocking: Students of Dr. L. Bullayya College performing at the MILAN-2010    G. NARASIMHA RAO Teachers of State universities and degree colleges have been granted the UGC recommended pay-scales and even as the process of its implementation is on, this benefit looks like a factor to help them realise their other long-pending demand of enhancing the age of retirement on superannuation. University teachers are seeking enhancement of age of retirement from the present 60 years to 65 years and indications are that the State Government willing to fix the age at 62 years. For the college teachers the age of retirement is expected to be increased from the present 58 years to 60 years. University teachers are banking on the fact that the steep hike in their salaries after the UGC recommended pay-scales are implemented would prompt the State government to hike the retirement age because this would bring down financial burden on the Government. After the new scales are implemented, an Assistant Professor (the entry level post in a State university) would get Rs.30,000 to Rs.40,000. With many professors retiring this year, the State Government will have to recruit new teachers (on the enhanced scales) and also pay pension to the retired professors, which will be between Rs.35,000 to Rs.40,000 for each professor. Instead of paying high salaries to the new assistant professors and increased pension to the retired professors, the best way is to let the present senior professors to continue, the teachers feel. If the retirement age is increased, the universities can also postpone recruitment of teachers for the time being. With around 1300 teachers only working in the State's universities the Government might think it is better to continue the present professors. Many professors of AU are retiring in June and they are hoping that the Government takes a favourable decision without delay. Some names are making rounds for the posts of Rector and Dean (academic affairs), which remained unfilled even after the Executive Council held its meeting recently. The present and a past Director of an important wing of the university are reportedly being considered for the posts of Rector and Dean (academic affairs). The second post is more important now and has to be filled up since the implementation of the new scales and conducting Career Advancement Scheme interviews need this official. A meeting of the executive committee of the State branch of Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India (APTI) was held at the AU College of Pharmaceutical Sciences to discuss the arrangements to be made for the APTI National convention, scheduled to be held in Hyderabad on October 1 and 2. Principal T. Satyanarayana presided. President of State branch of APTI William Carey, secretary A. Ramesh, S.C. Dinda from the Orissa State branch, Principals of pharmacy colleges in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts and faculty of AU college attended. Department of Commerce and Management Studies conducted a national –level workshop on case method of learning in management. Vice-Chancellor B. Satyanarayana inaugurated. He also released a book “Management: Text and Cases”, written by Prof. R. Satya Raju and Prof. A Parthasaradhi. Director (operations) of Dredging Corporation of India P. Sridharan, Principal of AU College of Arts and Commerce L.K. Mohana Rao, HoD B. Appa Rao, General Manager (MS) of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant G. Kanakayya, a professor of the department K. Ramamohana Rao, Director of IIAM B. Parvatheeswara Rao and others spoke. Legal education in the country needs encouragement and a reorientation also, said Vice-Chancellor of Chanakya National Law School A. Lakshminath during a lecture meeting organised by the Dr. Ambedkar AU College of Law. The students are suffering due to lack of coordination between the who prepare the syllabus, the teachers, paper setters and evaluator, Prof. Lakshminath said. He wanted legal education to be geared up as a society-centred and not merely client-court centric in the background of the rapid scientific and technological developments throwing new challenges to the legal system. VC of AP University of Law Y. Satyanarayana, Principal of AU College of Law A. Rajendra Prasad, faculty and students were present. A 15-member team consisting of professors and research scholars of Andhra University participated in the first Asian philosophy congress organised at the JNU, New Delhi recently. Of the AU team, Prof. Y.V. Satyanarayana chaired one of the sessions. Dr. K. John Babu presented a paper on “ethical values of media: a philosophical dimension”, Prof. K. R. Rajani in her paper focused on woman. Bobbili MP Botcha Jhansi Lakshmi hosted a dinner to the AU team at her residence. Visakhapatnam MP and Union Minister of State for HRD D. Purandeswari was chief guest of the valedictory function. It was a youth festival of different kind. The Vignan group of institutions at Duvvada organised Vignan Yvvtarang-2010, an eco-friendly meet blending technology with ecology. Chairman of Vignan group L. Rathaiah inaugurated the three-day festival. Commissioner of GVMC V.N. Vishnu, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests C.S. Rama Lakshmi, former Principal of AU College of Pharmacy K.P.R. Chowdary participated. Convenor of Yuvtarang K. Thammi Reddy , Principa of Vignan Institute of Information Technology M. Ramjee, Principal of Vignan Institute's Engineering College for Women A. Sesha Rao, Principal of Vignan Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences Y. Srinivasa Rao and others spoke. The two-day workshop at GMRIT, Rajam, on “Sustainable Development and Environmental Challenges” concluded on Saturday. The workshop was jointly organised by the departments of chemical, mechanical, civil and electrical and electronics in association with AP pollution control board. The workshop was inaugurated by Prof. S.Rama Krishna Rao of Andhra university and K.Ramesh of AP Pollution control Board. A number of experts comprising Principal of GMRIT CLVRSV.Prasad and CAO of GMRVF Laxmana Murthy, Dr. Ravi Krishna of IIT- Madras, P.Srinivas Rao of AP Pollution Control Board, N.V.V Satyanarayana of Nagarjuna Agrichem, R .Ramakrishna Rao of GE-Bangalore and Giridhar Galanda of GMR addressed the participants. Faculty members from various engineering colleges and GMRIT presented papers. Aditya Institute of Technology and Management (AITAM), Tekkali, hosted a two-day national level management students meets recently. The meet was conducted by the Department of MBA and was inaugurated by the Registrar of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University, Srikakulam, V. Krishna Mohan. The Director of School of Management JNTU P. Vijaya Kumar, Director of AITAM V.V. Nageswara Rao and Head of the Department of MBA (AITAM) B. Sivakumar addressed the students. A blood donation camp was organised by Dadi Institute of Engineering and Technology, Anakapalle, at its campus on March 25. The camp was organised in association with A.S. Raja Voluntary Blood Bank. Over 250 students and faculty members donated blood. The camp was inaugurated by the Secretary and Correspondent of the college Dadi Ratnakar and Principal of the college B. Jagan Mohan Rao. The Medical Director of A.S. Raja Blood Bank, Dr. Sugandhi, addressed the students and told the students the methods in which haemoglobin percentage can be improved. Metallurgical Engineering Department Day celebrated Department of Metallurgical Engineering, Andhra University, celebrated Departmental Day in association with Indian Institute of Metals, Vizag Chapter, on Saturday. The meet was inaugurated by the Deputy General Manager I/c (QA&TD) of RINL S.Mandal. In his address he highlighted the importance of Metallurgical Engineering in core metal industries. G.Rajaraman, Secretary, IIM-Vizag chapter and Lalan Kumar, council member, IIM, were the Guests of Honour. Prof. K. Srinivasa Rao, Head of the Department, presided over the function. Various awards and prizes were distributed to the winners. Korukonda Lingamurthy award was given to best out going metallurgist S.Swathi. Cash scholarship was given T.Suresh Kumar. Smt. Konumilli Suryakantham memorial prize was given to P. Swetha Bindu. The Departments of Management Studies and Computer Science at Dr. L. Bullayya College hosted a two-day national level techno-management meet MILAN-2010 at the college from March 24. Over 400 students from various colleges spread across the state and 50 faculty members participated in the two-day show. The meet was inaugurated by Minister of State for Human Resource Development D. Purandeswari in the presence of the Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University Beela Satyanarayana and college secretary G. Madhu Kumar. The valedictory session was attended by the Director Finance of Dredging Corporation of India P.V. Ramana Murthy. Various events like Sher-E-Bazar (smart investor), Ad-film making, role play, paper presentation, instant programming, techno game zone, quiz and group discussion was held during the meet. Jambadi Appala Raju of Parvathipuram was awarded Ph.D by Sri Venkateswara University for his thesis on Role of NGOs and HIV/AIDS. He was guided by Prof. G. Janakiram, Prof. S. Bhaskar and Prof. M. Narasimha Raju.