Warm welcome: Red Ribbon Express, the train spreading awareness on HIV/AIDS across the country, receives a grand reception on its arrival at the Secunderabad Station on Thursday.    Staff Reporter HYDERABAD: There was a huge response to Red Ribbon Express (RRE), the train spreading awareness on HIV/AIDS across the country, when it made a halt in Secunderabad on Thursday. It will be stationed for two days. Turnout at the train was so heavy that the volunteers manned aboard and outside the train had to rush through the visitors to make way for others waiting in queues. However, almost every visitor who came out of the train seemed brimming with the information and knowledge gained about the disease. The authorities AP State AIDS Control Society (APSACS) and Hyderabad district Medical and Health Department, who hosted RRE, were overwhelmed with the response. “We have informed several nursing colleges, Anganwadi workers' unions, paramedical workers, women self help groups in advance to visit RRE for getting educated on HIV/AIDS”, DM&HO of Hyderabad Ch. Jayakumari said. Knowledge Illiterate and semi-literate groups like daily wage workers, railway workers and porters were being mobilised to visit the train and gain first-hand awareness on HIV/AIDS. “I have gained some knowledge about AIDS with the help of oral and audio-visual presentations,” Ramulu, a visitor from a village near Bhongir, who entered the railway station by chance (while enquiring about Gandhi Hospital), said after visiting the train. A majority of visitors had to wait for their turn as the eight-coach train could take only 300 visitors at a time. “Visiting RRE was helpful as we were explained about HIV/AIDS with pictorial charts and multi-media presentation,” Dona, a nursing college student said. For V.M. Rufus, a General Nursing-Male (GNM) student, it was high educative. “It should also halt in smaller stations for better results,” he suggested. Earlier, RRE was inaugurated by Principal Secretary of Medical and Health Department J. Satyanarayana and District Collector of Hyderabad N. Gulzar. Project Director of APSACS R.V. Chandravadan, Joint Director B.V. Subba Reddy and others were also present.