The Ministerial Round Table chaired by Union Minister of State on Science and Technology Prithviraj Chavan on scientific collaboration with Africa has called for an interface between science and policy making in the developing countries. The round table was organised after the inaugural session of the 21 {+s} {+t} general meeting of Academy of Sciences for the Developing World (TWAS) here on Tuesday. In a world where there are nations rich in raw materials and others that are raw material poor, the former has to focus on value addition and through it wealth creation. The latter have to depend on developing their human resources with quality education and create good infrastructure for science, technology and research. “These are two different paradigms before the developing countries making it all the more important for close south-south cooperation ” Mr. Chavan said while summing up the discussions. Echoing the views of N. Pandor and H. A. M. Dzinotyiweyi, Ministers of S&T, South Africa and Zimbabwe respectively, Mr. Chavan agreed that wealth in developing economies could be created only with scientific innovation. He called for collaborative efforts to develop facilities in science, technology and research to prevent flight of talent from these countries. Besides extending research fellowships for African students, India had identified three science institutions in Africa for working with them closely and created India-Brazil-SA platform for collaborative work in nano technology, ocean technology, Biotechnology. A mega project on HIV AIDs was also being mounted, he said. Mr. Dzinotyiweyi said that though Zimbabwe was rich in diamond mines, it lacked value addition technology to reap commercial benefits. Ms. Pandor said South Africa would be building two satellites, one for earth observation and another for space weather and both would be launched in next two years by India. J. P. Ezin, commissioner of S&T, African Union, said they wanted to emulate Indian example of setting up centres of excellence like TIFR and IITs with support of partners.