They suffer discrimination during life and even after death. Despite many programmes to mainstream them, people living with HIV/AIDS have to put up with denial of services and social boycott. Now there is a ray of hope for them. Hereafter, their disease will be referred to as ‘immunodeficiency' and not as HIV/AIDS. The Government of India has taken a decision in this regard and issued directions to various departments. This follows reservations expressed by the National AIDS Control Organisation that HIV status of an individual is a confidential information and cannot be disclosed. There are repeated queries from agencies like insurance companies, courts and government department seeking disclosure of a person's HIV status. NACO feels HIV infection is usually not a direct cause of death, but some opportunistic infections, treatment failure and other such causes are responsible. Therefore, it wants the death certificate of a known case should mention “Immunodeficiency” in the underlying cause column instead of HIV/AIDS. D. Bachani, Deputy Director-General, Department of AIDS Control, has asked all the project directors of State AIDS control societies, nodal officers of ART centres and regional coordinators to follow the guidelines. R.V. Chandravadan, Project Director, A.P. State AIDS Control Society, feels the NACO decision has wider ramifications in dealing with HIV/AIDS positive persons. It is important particularly while issuing birth and death certificates. He has written to the government to issue orders in this respect to departments like Health, Women and Child Welfare, Social Welfare, Rural Development, Panchayathi Raj, Home, Law and Department of Education. “Dropping the discriminatory HIV tag will go a long way in minimising the social bias against the positive persons,” says Mr. Chandravadan. Hereafter medical officers will mention immunodeficiency in place of HIV/AIDS. The same may be certified if asked by a court of law, insurance companies or any other government organisation. Till a cure is found to this disease this is considered the best option to reduce the stigma associated with PLHIVs, it is said.