Informative: (From top) J. A. Arul Chellakumar, NSS Programme Coordinator, Bharathidasan University, addressing the students of Government College for Women, Perambalur. K. Varadharaajen, Founder and Chairman of Roever Educational Institutions, addressing students of Thanthai Hans Roever College, Perambalur. Hospitality Day celebration at Srinivasan College of Arts and Science, Perambalur. P. Suresh Kumar, former Regional Deputy Director of Employment, interacting with students of Sudharsan Engineering College in Pudukottai.    A seminar on ‘Ozone protection' was held at Government College for Women in Pudukottai. R. Umarani, Principal of the college, presided. She spoke on the importance of ozone protection. An exhibition on ‘Role of students in protecting environment' was held as part of the programme. J. A. Arul Chellakumar, NSS Programme Coordinator, Bharathidasan University, inaugurated an NSS camp on the occasion. V. Vaidyanathan, secretary, Sri Bharathi College of Arts and S. Karthikeyan, Head, Department of Botany, H.H. The Rajah's College, spoke on the role of students in maintaining ecological balance. M. Gayathri Devi, NSS Programme Officer, presided. An awareness programme on ‘Road safety' was held as part of the camp. *** The Department of Microbiology of Thanthai Hans Roever College in Perambalur conducted a one-day inter-collegiate workshop on ‘BLOT '10.' K. Varadharaajen, Founder and Chairman of Roever Educational Institutions inaugurated the workshop. He said that the workshop provided a hands-on-training on the blotting techniques and Elisa techniques. These techniques are used for the diagnosis of several diseases like Hepatitis, AIDS, Syphilis, etc. R. Swaminathan, Director, P.S. Joseph, Principal and D. Leema Peter, Vice-Principal of the college spoke. Medox company imparted the training during the workshop. *** Under the auspices of Rotaract Club of Srinivasan College of Arts and Science, the ‘Hospitality Day' was observed at Vidhya Ashram, at Senjeri village, near Perambalur. R. Manivannan, of Tamil Department, in a story-telling session, taught values to the children of the ashram. S. R. Manikandan, a resource-person, gave an entertainment programme to the children. Members of the club and the students of Hotel Management Department hosted a special lunch to the children. The food was prepared by S. Yoganand, Head, Department of Hotel Management, and his team. A. Srinivasan, Founder and Chairman of the college, presided. *** The NSS units I and II of Sudharsan Engineering College, Sathiyamangalam, Pudukottai district, organised a day- long career guidance programme. P. Suresh Kumar, former Regional Deputy Director of Employment, was the chief guest. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Suresh Kumar dwelt on the various types of competitive examinations, facing the interview board, the skills necessary for securing a job in good concerns, preparing resumes, time management etc. The NSS units of the college in Pudukottai organised a blood donation camp. Mohamed Sultan, Block Medical Officer, Perambur and Cauvery Nagar and Raja, Blood Bank Officer, Government Headquarters Hospital, Pudukottai, monitored the camp. *** The Advanced Electrical Research Organisation (AERO), formed by the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering of the Arasu Engineering College was inaugurated recently. R. Thirunavukkarasu, Chairman of the college, in his presidential address, spoke on technical education. S. Velusami, Professor and Head, Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Annamalai University, inaugurated the AERO. He explained the recent trends in power generation. *** The Thanthai Hans Roever College in Perambalur conducted a staff orientation programme. S. Natarajan, CSIR emeritus scientist, was the resource person. In his address he stressed the importance of research. He said that funds were allocated for women to do research. R. Swaminathan and P.S. Joseph, Director and Principal respectively of the college, spoke about the importance of research and motivated the staff to take up research projects. *** The Department of English of Srinivasan College of Arts and Science in Perambalur organised a seminar for the students of English literature. K.S. Dhanam, Associate Professor of English, Periyar E.V.R. College, Tiruchi, was the resource person. More than five hundred undergraduate and postgraduate students participated. A. Srinivasan, Chairman of Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Group of Institutions, presided. A.Mutharasu, Principal and G. Haribaskar, Head, Department of English, spoke. *** The Departments of Computer Science Engineering, Information Technology and Computer Applications of Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Engineering College at Perambalur organised ‘CIMA'10,' a national-level technical symposium. B. Ramadoss, Head, Department of Computer Applications, National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, was the resource person. A. Srinivasan, chairman of the college, presided. S. Charles, Principal and S. Ambal, Director of the college spoke. *** Under the auspices of Karpaga Vinayaga College of Nursing, a lecture programme on ‘Empowerment through values and spirituality' was held. Sister Gomathi, was the resource person. She delivered a lecture on ‘Clean the mind and green the earth.' S. Sumithra, Principal of the college, spoke on the importance of knowledge, purity, peace, love and happiness. *** The Sudharsan Engineering College, Sathiyamangalam, Pudukottai, formed ‘LEAD,' the students association of the Department of Management Studies. K. Seeralan, trainer from Tiruchi Academy of Competitive Examinations (TRACE) was the resource person. He conducted a quiz programme and gave a lecture on mutual funds. K. Ranganathan, Diector (MBA) of the college spoke. *** The Cybertech Association of the Department of Computer Science, J. J. College of Arts and Science, Pudukottai, organised a lecture on ‘Positive approach' by P. Rajarethinam, Head, Department of Hindi, H. H. The Rajah's College. S. Sudha, Head, Department of Computer Science, presided. N. Supritha of final B. Sc Computer Science, offered felicitations. *** Contributed by K. Subramanian, M. Balanganessin and Syed Muthahar Saqaf