A diagnostic study to assess the socio economic and health status of women living with HIV/AIDS (WLHIV) in Rajasthan will be taken up with the support of UNIFEM. The findings of the study will be used for drafting a policy for WLHIV to ensure their basic right of survival with dignity. The policy is being prepared by Rajasthan Network of Positive People (RNP+), in partnership with IMPACT, New Delhi. At present 14,000 HIV positive people are registered with RNP+ and out of them, more then 7,000 are women. “Majority of the women are widows. Over 10,000 infected and affected children are associated directly with RNP+ and out of whom 1096 are orphans,” said Brajesh Dubey, president of RNP+. The study and policy formulation will be financed through a grant sanctioned by the recently concluded UNIFEM round of Gender Equity Funds. “The grant will be utilised to prepare the draft and submit a policy document to the Government of Rajasthan on December 1, 2010 indicating the package of services to be made available to women living with HIV as part of their right to survive with dignity and support the system in ratifying and implementing the policy,” said John Samuel, project manager. Mr. Samuel said the objective of the diagnostic study would be to ascertain the current status of WLHIV on social, economic and health fronts and to assess the disease pattern among the women living with HIV as well as the medication prescribed to them. Seven hundred HIV + women from 14 districts of Rajasthan would be interviewed for this purpose, he informed. This weekend 28 HIV positive women activists from 14 districts were trained here as investigators by IMPACT team comprising Manish Subharwal, Sanjai Gupta and Smriti Verma. Within this advocacy based project a series of activities will be carried out to gather enough information to draft the “minimum support package” as entitlement for women living with HIV, for which the government of Rajasthan will make commitment to provide as their basic right to live with dignity. A year long campaign in this connection was inaugurated by Rajasthan Health Minister Imaddudin Ahmed and noted film star of yesteryears and goodwill ambassador of UNICEF, Sharmila Tagore earlier this year.