Lending an ear: Minister for Urban Development S. Suresh Kumar listening to the grievances of inmates at the Destitute Rehabilitation Centre in Mysore on Sunday. — PHOTO: M.A. SRIRAM    A task force headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner C.G. Bethsurmath will be constituted to oversee the functioning of the Destitute Rehabilitation Centre in the city. This was announced by the Minister for Urban Development S. Suresh Kumar here on Sunday after visiting the centre. The Minister's visit comes in the wake of the recent deaths of 23 inmates at a beggars' home in Bangalore. Mr. Kumar said that the task force would be constituted within two days and would meet every month. The Minister proposed roping in non-governmental organisations to provide vocational training to the inmates. He also suggested that the list of missing persons with the police should be tallied with the list of inmates at the centre. If any inmate expressed a desire to return home, efforts should be made to reunite them with their families, he added. There are nearly 223 inmates in the centre in Mysore. Mr. Kumar noted that many of the inmates were mentally unsound and suggested that they be taken for a medical examination in Bangalore or doctors be deputed to periodically monitor their health. The Minister directed the Deputy Commissioner to admit inmates who were ill to hospitals. Mr. Kumar also promised a new building for the centre. While interacting with the inmates, the Minister came across two women who were graduates and had been abandoned by their families but were keen to return home. The Minister suggested that another inmate who was suffering from AIDS be admitted to a hospital. When presspersons asked if the three per cent beggars cess collected from citizens by the Mysore City Corporation was reaching the target community, the Minister avoided giving a direct answer and said that he would look into it. Regarding the Bangalore incident, Mr. Kumar said that the Government should have been proactive rather than reactive while addressing the issue. He added that society was responsible for the apathetic attitude towards beggars. C.H. Vijayashankar, MLC, Mayor Sandesh Swamy and other officials were present.