I am a medical graduate. I would like to study psychology in distance mode. Kindly suggest if I should pursue M.A or M. Sc Psychology. Please elaborate the difference between the two. Misha Psychology is a highly interesting subject and the understating of its concepts, theories and practical application can provide deep insights into human behaviour patterns and reactions by different people to similar or different situations. Psychology is also being used to assess how employees will be able to fit in to specialised roles and discharge their functions. There are several tests that can help young people determine their abilities and attitude towards learning certain subjects say science, mathematics or engineering. This in turn will help them chalk out a career path that fits their mental abilities and get in to the right job. The subject will equip a professional like you to understand the mental status of persons suffering from HIV or terminal illness like cancer and give them care and also counsel them. You can pursue M.A., M. Sc Psychology or M. Sc Applied Psychology. M.A psychology deals mostly with the theoretical aspects where as M. Sc and M. Sc Applied Psychology will deal with the application of theories and knowing results through experiments in the laboratory. You will have to conduct tests in areas such as memory, creativity, aptitude, interest personality, stress, study skills or interpersonal relations to understand various aspects of human behaviour. The following are some institutes offering courses in the subject: Sri Venkateswara University, Directorate of Distance Education offers M.A n Psychology in distance mode. The eligibility for applying is any degree. For details, log on to www.svudde.org Institute for Behavioural and Management Sciences, Chittoor offers MS in Counselling and Psychotherapy in distance mode. The eligibility criterion is graduation in any discipline. For details, visit: http://ibmsglobal.org Barkatullah Vishwavidyalaya, Institute of Open and Distance Education, Bhopal offers one-year Post Graduate Diploma in Psychological Counselling in distance mode. The eligibility criterion is graduation. For details go to www.bubhopal.nic.in/iode.htm Vinayaka Mission University, Directorate of Distance Education, Salem offers MA in Psychology in distance mode. The eligibility criterion for MA is degree in any discipline. For details, log on to http://vmudde.ac.in Alagappa University, Directorate of Distance Education, Karaikudi offers B.Sc in Psychology. Eligibility criterion is HSC/ +2 or three-year diploma. Visit www.alagappauniversity.ac.in for details Bharthiyar University, School of Distance Education, Coimbatore offers M.Sc Applied Psychology in distance mode. The eligibility criterion is degree in any subject. For details, log on to http://b-u.ac.in Annamalai University, Directorate of Distance Education, Annamalai Nagar offers M.Sc Applied Psychology. The eligibility criterion is graduation in any discipline. Log on to http://annamalaiuniversity.ac.in for details. IGNOU School of Social Sciences offers MA. Psychology in distance mode. For details visit: www ignou.ac.in I am in final year B. Tech Information Technology and secured 72.5 per cent aggregate. I am a Microsoft Certified professional, Sun certified programmer for Java 2 platform and Oracle certified Associate. I have good communication and presentation skills. But my performance in class X and + 2 was poor. I secured 80 per cent and 63.5 per cent respectively. Will it hamper my chances of getting placed in a MNC or securing an admission in US for post graduation? Teja Upadhyayula You need not be overtly worried about your job prospects. You have got some of the best certifications desired by top software companies under your belt. Many professionals on the job aspire for these qualifications and keep trying to get them. Maintain your aggregate through the final year to land a job in a reputed organisation. But there is one huge hurdle that you will have to face – the interview. Though you will be considered in the fresher category, you will be bombarded with questions of highly technical nature as you have got those coveted certifications. You must be ready to answer some tough questions that will show that you are really the master of that subject. If you convince the interviewer of your abilities and skills in those technologies and platforms, you can even get a better offer than the others in your batch. Your ability to show that you bring valuable expertise alone would be enough to get the job. For admission to post graduate courses in the US, these certification will not have any bearing, except to show that you are a good learner. Most admissions are determined on graduation marks, GRE/GMAT and TOEFL scores. Your school record will have very little negative impact as you have above average score. T. Muralidharan TMI Network (Queries for this column can be sent to collegian@thehindu.co.in)