Under the Distinguished Lecture series, William J. Schwartz, Professor at Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, USA, delivered a talk on ‘Chronognosis: Adapting to life on a Rotating World” at the University of Hyderabad. Prof. Schwartz, during his presentation, gave a detailed description of the case of a patient suffering from Insomnia and his diagnosis with Circadian Time keeping mechanism which found to yield qualitative results. He said results of his research found that humans are better at proof-reading at evenings to morning hours and described body cycle of humans with respect to daily activities. The analytical research studies found that non-24-hour sleep wake syndrome is due to isolated life-style with inadequate light intensity and subsensitive circadian visual system. Seyed E. Hasnain, Vice Chancellor, UoH presided. Speakers at the one-day workshop on ‘Social Science Research' said the researchers should take up formative and innovative researches which will be fruitful for the society. The national-level workshop on ‘Enrichment of Research Skills and their Applications in Social Work/Social Science Research' was organised by Department of Social Work, Vikrama Simhapuri University (VSU) here on Wednesday. Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society (APSACS) Joint Director P.L. Jaya Chandra Reddy, who was the chief guest for the programme, said the researchers should have the quality of critical and conceptual thinking, imagination, logic, problem solving, analysis and dissemination. A good quality analysis will provide guidance for social planning, enrich knowledge and suggest effective remedial measures, he said adding that students should take up research programmes to develop thinking capacity, upgrade writing and communication skills. R. Srinivas, in Nellore KLM College of Engineering for Women, Kadapa, will conduct Technofest – 2k10, a nation-wide symposium and competition on technical paper presentation and case studies for women engineering and management students on October 21, college principal S. Khaja Peer said. Aimed at developing global perspectives among students to equip them to face engineering and management-related issues both in the local and global context, the competition is open to women students of different colleges and universities across the nation. The themes selected were related to different disciplines like EEE, ECE, CSE, IT and MBA, Dr. Peer said. Those interested in participating can download details regarding the theme of competition and registration from the college website www.klmcew.ac.in. Cash prizes of Rs.1,500 and Rs.1,000 each would be given to two winners in each discipline and case studies. College correspondent K. Sivananda Reddy will be chief patron, director K.S.N. Reddy as patron, Dr. Khaja Peer as chairman and faculty member K. Upendra Rajuas coordinator. M.V. Subramanyam in Kadapa