Delay in the work on the outpatient department (OPD) block at the Government Medical College Hospital is affecting the implementation of the Rs.120-crore Prime Minister's Swasthya Suraksha Yojana in the hospital. The Public Works Department has taken up the construction of the block at a cost of Rs.20 crore, which is the State's share of the yojana. A super-specialty block was completed in record time by HLL Lifecare Ltd. at a cost of Rs.50 crore. The outpatient super-specialty clinics have started functioning in the block. “All other components of the yojana, including the ladies' and nurses' hostels and the CT and the MRI scanners, have become functional. The work on the OPD block, being constructed by the PWD, has been dragging for a while now. The OP departments were to have been shifted to the new block by January this year,” a senior hospital official said. The new block will house the outpatient clinics of 10 core specialties, plastic surgery, thoracic surgery and cardiology, the central biochemistry lab and the clinics for national programmes such as the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme and the ART clinic for HIV-infected people and its integrated counselling and testing centre, which are being constructed by following national guidelines. The block will also house the central pharmacy plus a warehouse of the Kerala State Medical Services Corporation. The superintendent's office and other administrative wings, the pay-ward booking facility and utilities such as a canteen and ATM counters will also be shifted. The old superintendent's block has been demolished. While the civil work has been completed and the lifts installed, a ramp to connect the third floor of the new block to the level of the old superintendent's office buildings is unfinished. Hence, the hospital authorities will not be able to shift patients from the new block to the main inpatient wards that are on the other side of the road. Another ramp should connect the fourth floor to the second floor of the building housing the central diagnostics facility and the blood bank. The 64-slice CT machine and MRI and ultrasound scanners have all been installed in this building. The construction of this ramp is also lagging. “There is no shortage of funds; the money has already been handed over to the PWD. Despite efforts on our part as well as efforts from the Health Minister herself, there has not been much progress,” an official said. Because of the delay, renovation of the casualty unit and the new trauma-care unit is held up. The outpatient clinics in the old main block have to be shifted out to make space for the casualty and the trauma-care unit. The hospital authorities are now planning to shift the microbiology, the pathology and the biochemistry labs to the new block in a few days. Public Works Minister M. Vijayakumar is expected to visit the building to assess the progress.