The former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on Tuesday said that India could realise Pharma Vision 2020 and emerge as a leader in drug production if it accomplished a few “missions” essential to achieve the goals, including increasing the pharma industry's turnover from the present $17 billion to $100 billion in the next 10 years. Delivering his address at the first convocation of JSS University, Dr. Kalam said that India had core competence of producing cost-effective pharma products. The global production of pharmaceuticals, branded and generic, put together was $773 billion and the Indian pharma industry at present had a turnover of $17 billion. The overall turnover of the pharma industry was expected to reach $25 billion by the end of 2010, of which 60 per cent would be exports, he said. Dr. Kalam said that nearly 40 per cent of all generic drugs used in the U.S. were sourced from India. Therefore, a target of producing 20 per cent of generic drugs used in the world should be set and young pharmacists assembled should contribute adequately to realising the Pharma Vision, he advised. Referring to the “missions” essential for realising the Pharma Vision, the former President said that one of the missions was that India should emerge as the leader of low-cost quality vaccines for HIV, cancer and malaria. Biotechnology could be part of immense applications and therefore pharmacists should develop drugs based on traditional Indian plants and herbs, Dr. Kalam suggested. Arguing that continuing education was a pre-requisite for all pharmacists to enable them to offer world-class professional services, the former President favoured synchronisation of pharma education curriculum in view of the changing global scenario. Dr. Kalam shared success stories of four medical professionals. They included Soma Raju of Andhra Pradesh who was instrumental in setting up a cardiac facility at Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences; H. Sudarshan of Vivekananda Girijana Kalyana Kendra at B.R. Hills who is bringing tribal people into the mainstream in Karnataka; V.V. Kakker, the founder director of Thrombosis Research Institute in Bangalore; and Choakyi Nyima Rinpoche, chief monk in Kathmandu and a medical researcher. Referring to these medical professionals, Dr. Kalam asked the young pharmacy graduates to inculcate six values — generosity, pure ethics, tolerance, perseverance, pure concentration and intelligence. “These virtues will empower healthcare care givers with a heart,” he advised. Dr. Kalam also advised young pharmacists and healthcare givers to decide on “What they shall be remembered for in life” and suggested that they think “out-of-the-box”. “You can be remembered for creating a company which finds a place in the top five pharma companies of the world and revolutionising the integrated primary healthcare centre in a PPP model. You can be remembered for creating low-cost drug supplements that can overcome malnutrition in millions of children,” he said. Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Swamiji of Suttur Math, who is the Chancellor of the University, declared open the first convocation. Vice-Chancellor B. Suresh read the annual report. A total of 119 students of JSS Colleges of Pharmacy in Mysore and Ooty received their Master of Pharmacy degrees. Among them, 10 meritorious students received gold medals. Sumeet Sood received the medal for scoring the highest marks in M. Pharm degree. Pro-Chancellor B.N. Betkerur, retired Supreme Court judge Shivaraj Patil, the former Union Minister M.V. Rajashekaran and university officials were present.