ENCHANTING : The Asima ensemble. PHOTO: R. SHIVAJI RAO    I was caught unawares! The dramatis personae emerged from the very entrance of the auditorium! They marched in, singing to the beat of the thavil. There was the sprinkle of rosewater as they passed by. Asima's male vocal and percussion ensemble based in Thiruvananthapuram greeted the audience en route the stage and began with a traditional vandana to Lord Ganesa. The word, ‘Asima' means “beyond boundaries” -- its founder-director, Devissaro introduced the performers and said, “We do not know where we really are. Do we represent the East or the West? Is ours contemporary music? Does it have traditional elements mixed with the modern?” Gokul was the conductor, Anil Ram their lead singer and Sreekumar and Khalid base singers. Tao Issaro handled the drum kit and Gary Pereira was on the piano/keyboard. For the traditional laya instruments -- tavil, ghatam, thimila, idakkiya, and chenda vadhyam – there was Sajith Padmanabhan. A lullaby by Iraiyimman Thampi, ‘Omanathingal Kidavo' had ‘Aararo Aariraro' in its rocking gait, tapering quite naturally and slowing down into silence -- the baby had slept! The next number, ‘Panchabootham,' a composition by Devissaro, was in praise of the five elements of Nature, which was followed by Kaitholi, an arrangement of Malayali folk songs. Finnish composer Eero Hämeenniemi's special number, ‘Sangeetham,' came towards the end. It had a 15 beat (mathra) cycle, ‘thaka thakita thaka thaka thakita thakita,' and was followed by a Tamil melody, ‘Nam Isai Veesudhu,' composed by Tao when he was 14. This saw the fine employment of the ghatam. The final piece was a thillana. A piece from ‘A Midsummer Night's Dream' came as a bonus. It was engaging music -- not a pointless collage or a random assortment. The entire programme pitched itself on sruti gnanam of a high order, as its harmonisation techniques, present even as a matter of default, were flawless in terms of alignment. The singers were impeccable. Sloka recitations had the attendant vibrancy and power in their rendering. The variety of drums and Tao's expertise imparted what was desired. Srijith on the conventional drum was a pillar of strength, while Pereira (piano) accompanied unobtrusively. Thanam, korvai and the kuraippu occupied considerable space. Rhythm seemed to be the governing idiom. The sound of drums tended to drown the lyrics on umpteen occasions. The tambura's aura and authenticity are essential for the stage. The swara rounds need to be pruned. Too many liberties were taken with Swathi Thirunal's Thillana in Dhanasri. Those who've listened to its pristine versions as rendered by MLV or B. N. Suresh (flute) should have realised it. Those Comparisons needn't be always odious; they do help in the process of learning.