Chief Minister Sheila Dixit (centre) at the launch of the documentary    W hy do we often see disparities between little boys and girls in our society, say in terms of choosing regardingtheir toys and sports? Why do many parents treat their girl child differently from their boy child? Why do only women have to always bear the burden of social responsibilities while their male counterparts take all the major decisions in the family? These are important questions, for their answers lead us straight to the core of our social fabric where gender disparity has been a stark reality. “Seema aur Salim ki Diary”, a documentary recently screened at the Delhi Secretariat Auditorium, interestingly brought these questions in front of an august audience. Released by the Centre for Equity and Inclusion (CEQUIN) for gender sensitisation of young people, the documentary provided a basic comprehension of conventional gender roles of ‘masculinity' and ‘femininity' and tried to break the stereotypical notions one has of these terms. It presented a close understanding of the growth of gender-based violence. The documentary, primarily targeted at children of Classes XI and XII (though it can be used for a broader age group as well), illustrated the ideas and thinking of students from Umang School along with a group discussion of students from the city's Sanskriti School. It also gave a critique on Bollywood movies as they often present a man in a tough look and a woman with only an emotional role to play. It also documented the difficulties that a girl faces in the society. Talking about the documentary, CEQUIN founder Sara Pilot said, “This is a fiction in a diary form. We want to look at the root causes of violence against women. Gender violence, in various forms, is the biggest challenge towards empowerment of women and girls in our country. Social and cultural constraints on women and girls often create barriers that have a direct impact on their ability to face such challenges. We have engaged children with us because changes can occur in a society only through the transformation of their mindset.” The documentary director Nitin Panmani, said, “It is designed for classroom viewing to initiate discussions among students. We want to make a gender sensitive city by creating awareness among school children. They have to relearn the sociological definition of masculinity.” Sara Pilot said, “We are in talks with Delhi Education Department to reach out to the Government schools. Initially, it will be screened in only Delhi schools.” Among others present at the screening were Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dixit, city Education Minister Arvinder Singh Lovely, Minister for Women and Child Development Kiran Walia and Shallu Jindal, founder of Open Space. Addressing the gathering, Dixit said, “As the documentary stated, the only way to sort out the problem is to provide equal opportunity of resources to both boys and girls.” SHIVANI JAIN