STEP AHEAD Premism is better than Honganasu   | Photo Credit:  Ratnaja's Premism is told at the pace of a serial; long and unedited Their fathers are friends but these two are fiery foes. They vie for everything but sadly it's not healthy. Enter a cherubic lass and the competition touches a crescendo. She senses this and leads them on till she has to choose. She narrates her own love story about unrequited love. The climax is a sermon about love and friendship. I could write the story in a few paragraphs but would end up like Ratnaja's “Premism”, long winding and unedited. There are only so many plots considered commercially viable and directors in their anxiety to veer off the oft trodden path try to give a tweak to cinematic clichés. Ratnajas tale is told at the pace of a serial. A couple of scenes would have sufficed to show the one-upmanship between two youngsters but Ratnaja drives it in with long drawn out, stock sequences. The story told by the heroine is amusing in parts but seems totally detached from the basic premise. There is no doubt that the plot and the climax is inspired by Kadhir's “Kadhal Desam”. There are snatches from Kim Ki Duk's masterpiece “3 Iron” and even Mani Ratnam's “Mouna Raagam”. Sunil Raoh takes the acting honours. The rest including Amulya recite their lines with neither pause nor modulation. Digital cinematography is still in its nascent stage and the lack of contrast leaves most frames looking flat. Hamsalekha's music is uninspired. Ultimately it's the long winding narrative that kills whatever little good there is in the film. Not a single scene is crisply told. Nobody has the patience these days to endure three hours of a triangle mainly because it neither moves nor entertains you. “Premism” is better than “Honganasu” but then that's not a compliment. There were two big releases in Telugu and Tamil, “Varudu” and “Paiyya” and both flatter to deceive. The former stars that bundle of nervous energy Allu Arjun and was eagerly awaited. He plays a youngster who wants to marry a bride chosen by his parents with a ceremony where the festivities go on for five days. Things are fine with every frame crammed with fiesty characters till in a typical Telugu twist the marriage ‘mantapam' collapses and the heroine is kidnapped. Cut to the rough, rugged Rayalseema like terrain where a goon who's a law unto himself has her incarcerated. The reason of course is that she's resisted his advances and yes, slapped him. Director Gunashekar went into hibernation after the disastrous “Sainikudu” starring Mahesh Babu only to dish out another mediocre film. The baggage of having a star with fans who expect certain things from him weighs heavily on the plot. Added to that is Arya as the baddie who is a hero in Tamil cinema. In his anxiety to give him a meaty role, the director makes him mouth lengthy lines. “Paiyya”, inspired by transporter is another directionless road movie relying more on picture perfect visuals and Karthi's charm than on a plausible plot. Directors will complain about constraints and cost but the sufferers are always the ever hopeful paying public. S. SHIVA KUMAR sshivu@yahoo.com