This year the Joy of Giving Week begins on September 26. This will be the second edition of this mega project, which seeks to inculcate the habit of giving back to society some part of one's earning and wealth that can be used to help the needy and the deprived. The week long event seeks to transform the act of giving into a festival like any other celebrated in India be it Diwali or Christmas or Eid, with complete public ownership. It is held every year starting on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, with October 2 (Gandhi Jyanti) coming within. Joy of giving Week is hosted by GiveIndia, a donation platform that allows people to support a cause of their choice from about 200 NGOs that have been scrutinised for transparency and credibility. It will also tell you exactly where the money went and also gives proof of it through a feedback report. Through its web site www.giveindia.org which can be termed as a ‘philanthropy exchange'the platform raises over Rs 27 crore to various non-profit organisations through the Internet. In a vast country like India there are many areas where one can help – education, medicare, rural poverty, the homeless, street children, AIDS and support a cause either by donating money or providing infrastructure and material such as tools, implements, computers, school furniture which can be used by a particular organisation working for a set cause. Though many of us have a heart for a particular cause, we do not believe in organisations that come to us for charity and donation. This is because there are several dubious agencies and we have witnessed scandals emerging from them. So our faith in these organisations is very little and so charity gets hits in the process. The yearly event gives everyone a chance to show his/her zeal and passion for giving and sharing. Companies, celebrities, business heads, NGOs, schools, colleges and individuals can be a part of it. Many events will be held across the country for people from all walks of life to participate. Some of them are - Vastra Samman, a pan India campaign for collection of clothes and other unwanted but re-usable material. India Giving Challenge 2010 - where corporates, NGOs and individuals raise funds online by reaching out to their employees, customers, vendors, partners and supporters who in turn will reach out to their friends and families. Joy fest - a cultural event to be held in 500 colleges across India. The colleges will invite members' from a local NGO, orphanage, blind school or old people's home as guests of honor. They will jointly participate in the events. Shadow A CEO - students from leading B-schools get to shadow a CEO for a day, by bidding the highest for the charity of the CEO's choice. While these are the main events being held, individuals can add events that can cater to a cause of their choice. The organisers have also a designed an event named – Dreamathon. It provides a novel way to use one's hobby or skills to raise funds for a charity. There are some extremely useful examples on www.joyofgivingweek.ning.com/page/tips-and-suggestions of how one can put his hobby to work for a good cause. The Joy of Giving Week brings an opportunity for all those who have the sincere desire to give but have not been able to do so because of several constraints. We need not be a Warren Buffet or Bill Gates to embark on a plan of giving. Every rupee that goes into charity helps serve a cause and brings joy both to the giver and the recipient. If there is one aspect that all religions agree upon- it is charity, giving and sharing. Today all management gurus too advocate the sharing of knowledge, information and resources. So if you have the will to give and have found no way – here is the link to fulfill your desire www.joyofgivingweek.ning.com K. V. Rajasekher faqs@cnkonline.com