All about management Shiv Khera    SHALINI SHAH With his latest You Can Sell, Shiv Khera hopes to repeat the success of You Can Win SHALINI SHAH has the details Motivational speakers have their share of detractors. Not many are willing to believe in the mind-moving faculties of individuals whose power and effect can, at best, be measured in subjective terms. But then, some do come with a certain respectability reinforced, for example, by the fact that almost two million copies have been sold of one's book. Shiv Khera is one of the first motivational speakers-authors the country has seen and accepted. Now, the author of 12 books and founder of corporate training firm Qualified Learning Systems Inc. is back with You Can Sell. Everyone's selling! Emphasising that target readers aren't just professional salespeople, unlike what the book's title might suggest, he says: “The book has universal application; it is for executives, homemakers, students and management people. Selling is about attitude and motivation. Let's reverse the question and ask: ‘Who is not selling?' A lawyer arguing his case, a politician making a speech… We're selling either for or against ourselves. Anyone who sells a product, service or idea is a salesperson.” He adds: “Even I'm selling you an idea now.” Early days Much before Khera started selling ideas, he was selling products and services. “I started life washing cars in Canada, and selling vacuum cleaners and insurance,” he recalls. Then, “37 years ago”, Norman Vincent Peale happened. Khera attended a programme by the world-renowned author of The Power of Positive Thinking , and his world changed. “What he spoke for an hour-and-a-half that day has stuck even today,” says Khera. “He spoke about how a problem is a sign of life; if we don't have a problem we're dead. Many a time, we are our biggest problem, and until you realise this, you keep blaming the entire world for your life. How is it that under the same circumstances some break records and some break themselves? The response, not event, creates stress.” While Khera defines himself as an author, educator, business consultant, entrepreneur and speaker, do not call him a management guru, though, ironically, many credit him with starting the whole trend of management gurus in the country. “I am a management student, not a management guru. I'd like to disassociate myself from the term. It's a process of learning. ‘Guru' puts you on a pedestal, it means you talk down to people,” he counters. Khera started the social activism organisation Country First, under which he has been championing the cause of freedom through education and justice. “To that purpose,” Khera says, “I have filed three PILs in the Supreme Court.” The first deals with arming voters with the right to “active rejection”. “We're talking of active protest here”, he says, wherein if a certain percentage of people choose the option the candidates stand disqualified. In short, a way of not just registering a protest but also making it effective. Coming to caste and religion, he had once made a documentary ‘Jaati Todo, Bharat Jodo'. Others are in the pipeline – on the subjects of smoking, HIV and road accidents. Road accidents, he says, are as much a manifestation of an attitudinal issue as of the perils of modern-day transport. “India has one of the highest road fatality rates in the world. It is also due to an attitude problem, of low self-esteem, ego.” While activism, usually, goes hand-in-hand with politics, Khera's also tested political waters, though not very successfully. In 2004, he stood as an independent candidate from South Delhi, in the General Elections, and lost badly. The money game “Politics is a big money game. There's a lot of expense that goes into it. People put in crores to buy votes now. There's so much poverty and ignorance… The interesting thing is, all parties are doing the same. The reality is, good candidates are missing. How many people are willing to go full-time into politics?” he asks. “At the same time, there are people who have stood independently and won. People are looking for alternatives. Just because I haven't been able to do it, it doesn't mean no one can.”