The July 2, 2009 verdict of Delhi High Court de-criminalising homosexuality has revolutionised the lives of the Queer community in Kerala. At the end of a long legal battle, Justices A.P. Shah and S. Muralidhar of Delhi High Court struck down Section 377 of Indian Penal Code which made homosexuality a crime to be punished with up to 10 years' rigorous imprisonment. Under the pretext of IPC 377, the police used to harass and extort money from the community and millions of LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexuals and transgender) people used to live under the threatening shadow of the colonial law. The verdict changed the lives of the Queer people like never before. “The verdict has opened a dawn of new hope for the sexuality minorities,” says Reshma Bharadwaj, an activist of ‘Sahayatrika,' a lesbian support group. “It liberated them from being a ‘criminal' community. The court has given the Queer community the confidence to assert their rights and to not feel guilty about their sexual orientations.” The community is now gearing up to commemorate the first anniversary of the historic verdict. The highlight of the celebration will be a Queer Pride parade in Thrissur on July 2. This will be the first Queer Pride in Kerala. Thrissur will join Bangalore, Delhi, Mumbai and other major cities which annually host Queer Pride. In many cities abroad, Queer Pride parades are held every year to assert the rights and gender identities of the LBGT people. The Queer Parades were inspired by the Gay Pride marches that took place in New York, Chicago and Los Angeles on June 28, 1970, to commemorate the Stonewall Inn riots involving the gay community in New York the previous year. The Thrissur parade will herald the new-found confidence of the LGBT community drawn from the verdict. In just a year's time, the Queer community in Kerala, a conservative State in terms of sexuality minorities, has come of age. Since the law would not discriminate against them, thousands of LGBTs have come out of the closet to assert their right to be different. LGBT collectives, support groups and helplines have mushroomed. The community's visibility has enormously increased. Groups are now publicly rallying behind causes such as environmental protection. The changes in the Queer landscape in the past one year have been so drastic that ‘Vathil,' a Thiruvananthapuram-based group, is now planning to make a video film on the ‘post-377' situation in Kerala. Another group is setting up a documentation centre. Aryan Krishnan, coordinator of Vathil, which mainly works for gays, thinks that the verdict is the best thing that ever happened to the Queer community. “The de-criminalisation made it easy for the community to establish its legitimacy,” he told  . The LGBT persons with working-class or lower-middle-class backgrounds were much more visible now than the pre-377 era. Migration of Kerala LGBTs to other States had fallen. In the past, transgender people (Hijras) used to leave Kerala for life so much so that people doubted Hijras ever existed in the State. Ms. Bharadwaj points out that there was a “comfort level” now in debating LGBT issues and that even at homes the taboo over such issues had faded. Another visible improvement was the ease with which the Queer people could go to a doctor seeking an SRS (sex realignment surgery.) However, activists and individual gays said the taboo and stigma still existed as the Kerala society was basically deeply conservative. The police now use the “public nuisance” clause to harass and extort money from the LGBT people. Yet, the past year was a “year of freedom.” Many formal groups, such as the Malabar Cultural Forum, Chilla, Vathil, Sahayatrika, Voice, Loveland Society, Ananya and Souhrida as well as the dozens of informal groups often come to their help. The government-sponsored anti-HIV movement created a context in which the LGBT community could mobilise themselves and the verdict over IPC 377 boosted their confidence. The Queer Pride is expected to showcase this collective confidence.