reaching out: Pandu, Rashmi, Venu, Ramya, Rebecca, Ratna    The young blood in the city seems to have taken it upon themselves to follow this meaning of life and create a social revolution. Many teenagers and college students are volunteering for social work with non-governmental organisations. There are others who do it on an individual basis but the passion to construct a healthier society lies in each student's heart.   interacted with a cross-section of students on involving in social work along with studies.  I am involved in street theatre and we perform for awareness on AIDS, street children and women's issues. It is a great learning experience for me. I easily manage my time for both college and social work. The fact is, if you have a will you can easily take out time.  I am much interested in working for disabled children. Working for some cause while studying makes us better human beings. You need not have any personal reason for taking up such a cause. The smile on their faces is reason enough!  It is not because of the fact that I am pursuing this course that I am associated with various social work organisations but it is because I want to create a change in society. I want to see all the citizens of my country become self-sufficient, to be aware of their rights. I dedicate my time for students who are financially challenged and encourage them to face the difficulties.  We have tuition centres in the slums of Bangalore city and I along with my friends teach there. I am emotionally attached to these students. Being born in such an area I can understand the struggle children have to go through for their education.  I am associated with the World Organisation of Student and Youth (WOSY). I help new students in the city find places to live in. I help them to familiarise with this city and bridge the gap. It just takes a bit of your time and willingness to shoulder a responsibility. The friends I made here are great. Helping people of different regions and ethnicity has also widened my viewpoint apart from the knowledge that I get through my studies.  All I used to do earlier was to work on my own education. I never thought that teaching children in slums will teach me so much. It opened my eyes. Even though I am not being paid, the satisfaction I am getting out of it is immense. I love to teach and will continue doing so.  I was working with Child Relief and You in Bangalore. I made a video for the poor kids here and it gave me immense pleasure to be able to put a smile on someone's face. I got emotionally attached with these kids; I visited them almost every day. The innocent responses I get from them just make my day. It is a pleasure to do such work along with studies.  Teaching children in slums gives me a lot of satisfaction. I am also part of a team that does street theatre for these children. Social work is not a form of work for me, it is my rebound time.  I saw children in a train sweeping the floor and it made me cry. I cannot bear to see street children. This is the reason for my special attachment with them. I am doing social service through my college and it will not affect my study. Once I finish my education I want to render my services to them.