Getting together: To help other kids.    The students of Little Angels School, Somangalam had a cheerful day at the funfair organised by the Kids for Kids (KFK). The members of KFK joined them in singing, dancing and playing. The students of Stds III and IV who took part in the fair spent the day learning new things and interacting with the volunteers. The kids along with the volunteers performed the song “Bubbling Bubbling”. At the end of the session, students, teachers and the KFK members shared their experiences of the day's activities. KFK, a non-profit organisation that helps underprivileged children, is a group of young students. The group had adopted the school using the proceeds from a fund-raising concert “Ablaze” conducted in August 2009. Their recent concert “Alive” in August 2010 fetched them 6.5 lakhs, out of which 1 lakh was donated to the kids of Little Angels School. The group had provided indoor playing facilities and public address system to the school run by the Little Drops Trust that also supports a home for this aged destitute and many other projects. Rebecca Grace Abraham, a Std XI student in Sherwood Hall School and one of the founding members of the organisation, said, “earlier we used to spend time with HIV+ kids. Then we all got together and decided that we should help the underprivileged children with whatever resources we have.” The group that consists mostly of school students believe in the motto that “Do what you can with what you have” and they have succeeded in their attempts to make a difference in the lives of underprivileged children. The funds raised through their concerts are also used to support HIV+ kids and Sri Lankan refugee children. The group that started with nine students now has a membership of 60. Aiming at a steady income to support their activities, KFK members design creative products like terracotta and bead jewellery, greeting cards, stickers, paintings, perfumes and chocolates.  Printable version | Jul 27, 2017 1:33:17 PM | http://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/Bubbles-of-happiness/article15783719.ece   © The Hindu 