ENGROSSING AS EVER Like all Shankar products    I f he had been a character in an Asterix comic Goscinny and Uderzo would have definitely named him Magnum Opus. That's Shankar for you, who dreams big and always finds someone who has the gumption to turn it into celluloid. The initial tinkle at the box-office has touched a crescendo during the first weekend. It will take sustained house-full boards for the distributors to make money but as of now the film has been declared a hit by pundits. The phenomenon called Rajnikanth has again hit bulls-eye. So is the film good? Well it does keep you engrossed most of the time. Visualised by Shankar and developed by the late, inimitable Tamil writer Sujatha, “Endhiran” is definitely an ambitious effort. The scale and canvas of Shankar's films have been going up and away right from “Gentleman”. I'm not a fan of Shankar, the story or screenplay writer. His handling of actors always leaves a lot to be desired. A good director's talent is not evident when he handles a Kamal or Rajni but the junior artiste on the fringe of the frame. His romantic scenes reflect his innate shyness while his comic sequences are either crude (“Gentleman”), loud (“Indian”) or pedestrian (“Endhiran”). Where Shankar triumphs, is in the way he garners the best technical talent to garnish his films. Form more than compensates for inept content. “Endhiran” is reality today because of a money-bag like Kalanidhi Maran, a superstar like Rajni whose fan base cuts through fragile barriers like caste, sex, age and language, a cinematographer like Ratnavelu whose work is fast yet fastidious and Shankar who lets loose his vivid imagination and delivers, nearly. The premise, in a nutshell seems to be the use and misuse of technology. Rajni the scientist creates a bionic clone reminiscent of the young and agile superstar of yore. He's invested with feelings and that's where the trouble starts. The robot falls for his creator's girlfriend. There's the baddie Danny who's keen on selling him to a ‘foreign hand' to aid international terrorism. Finally good does triumph over evil but not before you experience ennui and euphoria with a pinch of emotions. The special effects vacillate from the terrific to the tacky. Ratnavelu's cinematography is first rate from picturesque Peru, the interiors of a stylish lab to the brilliant lighting when two or more Rajnis are involved. Rahman's music is uninspired, be it the title track or the romantic tune, which sounds synthetic. Aishwarya Rai looks stunning and is grace personified when she's dancing but the appropriate expression to match the situation still eludes her. Rajni looks slightly jaded as the scientist, is better as the good robot but its when he turns evil that he's in form. The swagger in his gait, the smirk on his face and the glimmer in his eyes give you goose bumps reminding you of his performances in films like “Moondru Mudichu”, “Avargal” and “Moondru Mugam”. That's when Rajni rocks. Last but not the least you have to laud Shankar's efforts, imagination and guts to pull it off. S.SHIVA KUMAR