Sumit Bhattacharjee VISAKHAPATNAM: AIDS and HIV awareness campaign is going on well but the stigma of being an HIV positive or AIDS patient is a major hurdle in the drive against the two dreaded diseases, the authorities have realised. “As far as awareness on HIV/AIDS is concerned we have successfully covered almost all segments in society through phased awareness campaigns for general public and targeted intervention campaigns for high risk groups. The messages have gone down well, and the awareness levels have increased considerably, but the area of concern has now shifted towards stigma and its effects. This factor is playing the spoil sport in identification, treatment and care and support of the infected and the affected. It is now a challenge for us to eradicate this aspect,” said the Additional District Medical and Health Officer and District Nodal Officer for AIDS P. Rajendra Prasad. According to him the prevalence rate and has come down significantly in almost all high risk groups like FSW (Female Sex Workers), truckers, migrant workers, mother-to-child transmission and MSM. He also informed that the use of condoms among the high risk groups have gone up appreciably. The drop in the prevalence rate and the increase in the condom usage are mainly due to the phased BCC (Behaviour Change Communication) and IEC campaigns like the Be Bold, Aasha I and II and Mee Neestam that were run by APSACS, both individually and in collaboration with other organisations like PSI and HLFPPT. But despite the success rate, the factor of stigma still seems to haunt us and the infected, he says. While on the one hand the percentage of HIV positive cases have come down from 16.9 per cent in 2002-03 to 5.53 per cent in 2009-10, the stigma factor has kept over 3,000 people from reaching the ART or ICTC centers. Future plans Talking of future plans, the ADMHO informed that two more ART centres are in the offing, one at the Government Chest Hospital and other one at Narsipatnam. On tackling the stigma factor, he said, “Mainstreaming the PLHA (people living with HIV/AIDS) is the solution.”