BEEHIVE OF ACTIVITY: A scene at Visakhapatnam Port.   | Photo Credit:  Santosh Patnaik VISAKHAPATNAM: In its endeavour to make it a world-class port, Visakhapatnam Port Trust is implementing a roadmap to complete various projects to handle capesize vessels and have fully mechanised facilities. VPT, which is all set to retain its No. 2 slot this fiscal by handling a throughput of 65.5 million tonnes during 2009-10 as against a target of 66 million tonnes notwithstanding competition posed by Gangavaram Port and recession, is undertaking construction of 10 berths with the Build Operate Transfer Operators. The highlight to make it fully automatic and capable of handling capesize vessels was the recent issuance of Letter of Award to Sterlite Industries Ltd and Leighton Contractors India Pvt. Ltd. for mechanisation of General Cargo Berth at a cost of Rs.443 crores. It is scheduled to be ready in 18 months. Berths under PPP A senior official of VPT told The Hindu on Monday that by 2012, VPT had already awarded three BOT berths including a liquid cargo berth under Public-Private Partnership Mode. The official said they would be in a position to offer better, cheaper and faster handling facility than Gangavaram to Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited's Visakhapatnam Steel Plant after one-and-half years and felt that the RINL management should take into consideration pilot-age charge, inventory carrying, berth hire and other charges before entering into long-term contract with anyone. Centre's clearance The Centre recently gave clearance for mechanisation of fertilizer handling at EQ-7 of VPT. The official said the award would be finalised in a month. Besides iron ore mechanisation, fully automated berths will be built for handling alumina, caustic soda and other bulk cargo, thermal coal and steam coal. As per National Maritime Development Plan, Rs.2,500 crore is being spent for creating new berths, augmenting existing facilities, equipment and logistics so as to enhance cargo handling capacity to 120 million tonnes by 2012 from the present 62 million tonnes. The port, keeping in view the need to cater to deep draft vessels, is implementing phase-II deepening of Inner Harbour entrance channel and turning circle to 12.5 meters draft. It is likely to be over by October 2010. Phase-III deepening of Inner Harbour entrance channel and turning circle to cater to 14 meters draft will be taken up soon.