Varied events:Blood donation camp at SVS College of Engineering.   | Photo Credit:  SVS Educational Institutions in association with the Rotary Club of Coimbatore Texcity inaugurated the Rotaract Club at the SVS College of Engineering. K.I. Antony Johnson, DRCC – RI District 3201 inaugurated the club and also a blood donation camp. He encouraged students to donate blood to save precious lives. He stressed that it was a great opportunity for young students through the club to help the social needs of the community and promote better relations between people worldwide through a framework of friendship and service. Nearly 100 students donated blood. The GRG School of Management Studies conducted the management event “Urjith”. Events like young business leader award, best management team award, management games and the business quiz formed part of Urjith. Nearly 350 students from 21 management institutes in and around Coimbatore participated. D. Ravichandran, chief executive, Usha Engineering Works, was the chief guest for the inauguration. The prizes for the various events were distributed at the end of the day to the winners by P. Thirumalvalavan, Registrar, Bharathiar University. The Department of Social Work of Karpagam University organised a two-day workshop on “Research Methodology and SPS”. Professor Kalyanaraman (Retd.), Department of Statistics, University of Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram, was the resource person. The workshop included lectures, group exercises, presentations and interactive sessions. Research scholars attended and urged the university to conduct similar workshops on different technical issues of research. P. Lakshmanaperumalsamy, Registrar of the university was present. A training and orientation programme on computer and Internet was held at the Sree Narayana Guru College for personnel of the Tamil Nadu Special Police 4th Battalion. E.K. Girisan, faculty of the Department of Information Technology, conducted the training programme. Nearly 50 personnel attended the programme and learnt the basics of computer operations, browsing the Internet, sending e-mails and various other applications. The CSI Bishop Appasamy College of Arts and Science observed the NCC Day. The celebrations were marked by various events. M.R. Sundarrajan, former Assistant Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore, addressed the cadets and emphasised the need for discipline and task-oriented approach to life. He spoke on how NCC played an important role in shaping the potentiality of cadets. A display of NCC activities and an entertainment programme were performed by the cadets. SNMV College of Arts and Science observed the NCC Day. The celebrations were marked by various events. M.M. Bhuradia, Secretary of the college, addressed the cadets and stated that NCC offered opportunities for personality development. Lt. K. Swathi Priya, Associate NCC Officer, spoke on the ethics of NCC how it played an important role in transforming the cadets into truthful, upright and obedient citizens. A display of NCC activities and various competitions were held. The Youth Red Cross was inaugurated at the KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology. K. Perumal, Head, Department of Physics, Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science, was the chief guest. He urged the students to be of help to society in all possible ways they could. He spoke on the benefits of students joining such activities to serve the society. NCC Day was observed at the PSG College of Technology. As part of the celebrations, NCC cadets participated in the essay writing and painting competitions on various themes like global warming, India – Emerging Super power, role of NCC in nation building and unity and diversity. Captain M.D. Kannan, Associate NCC Officer, spoke to the cadets about the importance of the observation of the NCC Day and highlighted the activities of the college since 1951. Cadets were administered the NCC Cadet Pledge and pledge against female infanticide. Cultural programmes on national integration and tree plantation also formed part of the celebrations. The Department of Management of Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology organised a workshop on Case Analysis and Report Writing. The workshop was to inculcate the culture of case method based learning among the management students. R. Chandrasekhar, consultant, business management, critically examined the case studies presented by the students. He explained the methodology to be followed in analysing business related cases. Sri Eshwar College of Engineering inked a memorandum of understanding with Kriatee Services Private Limited, a CAD/CAM solution provider. The MoU was signed by Mohan Ram, Chairman of the college and Ajitha Prabhu, Director of Kriatee. The MoU would facilitate job opportunities by providing continuous placement training programmes for students from the second year. Ms. Prabhu explained to the students about the importance of CAM simulation software and its uses. The Department of Commerce, Avinashilingam University for Women, conducted a seminar in connection with the National Education Day. Various sessions on challenges in higher education in India, education for holistic development, role of education in empowering women, etc., were held. Resource persons from different walks of life presented the sessions. SNR Sons College observed the National Education Day. S. Senthilnathan, Assistant Professor, Department of Education Technology, Bharathidasan University, was the chief guest for the day's programmes. He spoke on “Higher Education in Transition: Challenges and Opportunities”. He pointed out the various advantages and challenges that awaited the teachers in the present education system. V. Sengodan, Principal and Secretary of the college, stressed the importance of teachers restructuring themselves to suit the present day education system. The MCA Department of VLB Janakiammal College of Engineering and Technology organised a two-day workshop on “Optimisation in Information Management”. R.P. Thangavelu, Scientist, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Centre for Mathematical Modelling and Computer Simulation, Bangalore, inaugurated the workshop and pointed out the enormous increase in the amount of information due to computing technologies. Technical sessions were handled by academicians and representatives from the industry. They focused on the current research oriented topics related to information management such as Genetic Algorithms in video processing, biometric security and optimization, database optimization techniques, etc. Kathir College of Engineering and Management entered into a memorandum of understanding with Deccan Industries, a pump set manufacturer. The MoU entailed the in-plant training of management and engineering students in finance, marketing, general administration and engineering. G. Doraisamy, principal of the college, and Karthik, partner of Deccan Industries, signed the MoU. The Department of Educational Technology of Bharathiar University observed the National Education Day. Staff and students of the department conducted an awareness programme at the Kalveerampalayam Panchayat Government High School. They spoke to the students on the contribution of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad in whose memory the National Education Day is observed. The Department of Information Technology of Dr. NGP Institute of Technology organised a technical workshop on Open Source Systems – PHP and MySQL. Mr. Sowri, Technical Head, HCL (South), and Kavitha Raghupathy, Project Manager, Tex World.com Private Limited, were the resource persons. Faculty and students from more than 100 colleges attended. The Red Ribbon Club was launched at the Easa College of Engineering and Technology. N. Vaideeswaran, District Manager, Red Ribbon Club, Coimbatore, was the chief guest. He spoke to the students on the objectives of the club. B.G. Vishnuram, Principal of the college, urged the students about the preventive measures that should be followed by students to eradicate AIDS and other diseases. Department of Physics of Gobi Arts and Science College, Gobichettipalayam, recently released the magazine, ‘Vibration – tune the minds', says a release. K. Perumal, Head of the Department, SRMV College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, released the first issue of the bi-annual magazine. Editor of the magazine and HoD, Department of Physics, S. Balasubramaniam welcomed the gathering, the release says and adds that Principal R. Sellappan delivered the presidential address. College president P. Karuppannan and Secretary and Correspondent K.M. Natarajan received the first copy. Vellalar College for Women, Erode, celebrated Republic Day with patriotic spirit, says a release from the institution. Freedom-fighter K.K. Muthusamy, who had participated in the Quit India Movement, unfurled the tricolour. The release says Vellalar Matriculation Higher Secondary School Principal A. Avudaithai welcomed the gathering. Mr. Muthusamy spoke on women's education and insisted that education be given through mother tongue, the release says. Amutha Kannan