Discussion : Over coffee. Photo : By special arrangement    Coffee-houses have always been places where people meet and discuses politics, philosophy, family, job, relationships and anything and everything about life. The story of Alchemy Theatre's latest production “One Degree Second” unfolds through the conversations between people at a coffee-house who share a special bond with the place and those who frequent there. Interlaced with slapstick comedy, filmy dialogues, music and dance sequences, were poetry, philosophical thoughts and a strong message to do our best to bring a change in society. The story revolves around the lives of a group of people who had lost their dear ones during the Mumbai bomb blasts in 2003. The incident had totally shattered their lives and the play narrated their struggles to move ahead holding onto fragile hopes. Music and sound were given a lot of importance in the production. The concept, screenplay and direction of the play was done by Vijay Viswanathan, founder and CEO of Alchemy. “The idea was to take social issues to people through entertainment. When you simply try to talk about these things no one will listen, but I believe that if it is presented in an entertaining way the message will reach more people.” By taking issues like terrorism and the our attitude towards AIDS patients, the play underlined the need to think about the consequences before we do anything. The play was also designed to give exposure to the students of Alchemy who were performing for the first time on stage, by bringing in a medley of characters that would provide them an opportunity to showcase their acting skills. The battle of words through poems between the hero and the heroine was met by the audience with a big applause. The play was staged at the valedictory function of the second Inter school theatre competition held by Alchemy Kids Theatre Club. The competition was conducted for students from schools across Tamil Nadu from stds VI to XII. The topics given for the contest were “Music and movie piracy” and “An Indian's national Identity”, and each team was allotted 10 minutes for performance. The judges for the contest were advocate E. Venkatesan and dancer Sreelatha Vinod. Actor and stand up comedian Badwa Gopi was also present. Music director Bharadwaj and film director S.P.Muthuraman distributed trophies and certificates to the winners. The Alpha Global Compass School, Tiruchi bagged first prize while the second prize was won by Vaels Billabong High International School, Chennai and third by D.A.V Girls Higher Secondary School, Chennai. Alchemy Kids Theatre Club trains children in the age group of four to 15 in the area of personality development and talent promotion through the art of theatre.