All they want is to be accepted by the general public. They are normal people, with the only difference being their “sexual orientation.” With the help of some voluntary organisations, these people have formed into a registered society. The 856 members of the ‘Krishna Yuvajana Samkshema Sangam' (KYSS) are referred to in the jargon of voluntary organisations as MSMs (Men having Sex with Men). The general public just use the politically incorrect terms like ‘homos' or ‘homosexuals'. Members of the association, who all belong to Krishna district, recently met in the city to mark the completion of one year of the Delhi High Court's “landmark” judgment that “decriminalised” homosexual activity between consenting adults. Association's community project manager Ch. Kumar says that 856 members have enrolled in it since its registration in 2008. Mr. Kumar says that the members broadly fall into three categories – kothis (feminine men who take the feminine role in sex with men), DDs or double deckers (bisexuals) and TGs or transgenders (locally called ‘Kojjas'). The KYSS, along with other voluntary organisations, extends several services to its members. Beginning with training members in the proper use of condoms, the KYSS distributes free condoms to the poorer members, sells them at a discount to those who can afford it and conducts free medical tests every three months and blood tests every six months. Outreach workers and community guides also educate members about the risk of having sex with multiple partners. Only 16 of the members were found to be HIV positive at the very inception and no member was found to be positive for the dreaded disease after that. The MSMs are also categorised into red (high risk), orange (medium risk) and green (low risk), based on their usage of condoms and sexual behaviour (signal partner or multiple partner). While half the members in the association can be put in orange category, the remaining are in green, Mr. Kumar points out. The identities of the members are kept confidential because many of them have regular families with wives and children, he says. Some of the members who can afford to make donations do so for the activities of the association. Mr. Kumar says that all the members are actively involved in controlling the spread of AIDS, but they are not getting any credit from the general public. The MSMs are still the victims of social stigma even though the courts have said that there was nothing “illegal” about their sexual preferences. “All they want is to be accepted by the society so that they can enjoy the benefit of the several welfare measures being extend to underprivileged sections like them,” Mr. Kumar says.