Special Correspondent NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday sought to clarify on the controversy over conferment of Padma Bhushan to U.S.-based NRI hotelier Sant Singh Chatwal, saying the awards were conferred only after guidelines regulating them were considered and established and elaborate procedures observed. A “due diligence” exercise is undertaken in respect of each awardee in consultation with appropriate agencies before announcement of the award. No Padma award is conferred except on the recommendation of the Awards Committee constituted for the purpose, a statement issued by the Home Ministry said. As regards the allegations against Mr. Chatwal, the Ministry clarified that between 1992 and 1994 the CBI registered five cases against him and some bank officials for conniving with the intention to defraud the Bank of Baroda and the Bank of India. Three of these cases were closed by the CBI itself while charge sheets were filed by the CBI in two cases before the Court of Special Judge, CBI, Mumbai. In these two cases also, the Court discharged Mr. Chatwal. As per available reports, there is nothing adverse on record against Mr. Chatwal, the statement said. Describing Mr. Chatwal as a tireless advocate of India’s interests in the U.S. and one who has been working relentlessly for strengthening bilateral ties, the official statement said he was a Trustee of the William J. Clinton Foundation, which focuses on critical global issues such as health care, climate change and economic empowerment of the underprivileged in the world community. He was also founder-trustee of the American India Foundation and made frequent trips to India to provide relief to victims of tsunami and AIDS. Mr. Chatwal had distinguished himself in the hospitality sector and was an active member of the NRI community in the U.S. in securing support for the nuclear deal among members of the Congress. Mr. Chatwal is a recipient of the Rajiv Gandhi Award 2005. He was honoured by the National Jewish Outreach Programme in New York in 2001 and with the ‘Order of the Khalsa’ by the Government of Punjab in 1999, the statement added.