Seeking swift action:Leaders and workers of the Congress demanding the arrest of the former Minister H. Halappa in front of the Mahatma Gandhi Statue in Bangalore on Monday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter Bangalore: Alleging that the State Government has ordered a probe by the CID only to cover up the rape charge against the former Minister H. Halappa, the Congress on Monday demanded a CBI inquiry into the incident. In a memorandum submitted to Governor H.R. Bhardwaj, the Congress also demanded the dismissal of the BJP Government for its failure to arrest Mr. Halappa even 24 hours after the complaint was lodged against him, and its failure to protect the dignity of citizens, particularly women. Speaking to presspersons after meeting the Governor, KPCC president R.V. Deshpande said that they have no faith in the CID inquiry as it is controlled by Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa who has already given a clean chit to Mr. Halappa. “It is stated that Mr. Yeddyurappa and BJP State president K.S Eshwarappa were aware of the said incident a few months ago. Also, Mr. Yeddyurapa and Mr. Eshwarappa had praised Mr. Halappa as being a pious and honest person, and are now dismissing the episode as a political conspiracy by the Opposition. These statements make it clear that they are determined to protect Mr. Halappa from prosecution and punishment,” Mr. Deshpande said. When they fully knew about the incident, said Mr. Deshpande, both Mr. Yeddyurappa and Mr. Eshwarappa were duty bound to inform the same to the police for initiating action against Mr. Hallapa. “Instead, both of them concealed the information about an offence said to have been committed by Mr. Halappa, as they belong to the same party and the same district and same political party,” said Mr. Deshpande. He said this act of “concealment” by the Chief Minister and Mr. Eshwarappa constituted an offence under Section 202 of the Indian Penal Code. Recalling several criminal cases related to BJP Ministers and MLAs — such as the death of Udupi MLA Raghupati Bhat's wife under “mysterious” circumstance; the complaint of harassment against Excise Minister M.P. Renukacharya by a woman; charges of illegal mining against Tourism Minister Janardhan Reddy; charges of cheating against Social Welfare Minister D. Sudhakar — the Congress said the Government has “failed” to uphold the law of the land and is “unfit” to continue in office. Protests The Congress and several other organisations like Janavadi Mahila Sanghatan, All India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO), All India Mahila Samskruthika Sanghatan (AIMSS) and All India Democratic Students' Organisation (AIDSO) on Monday launched a series of demonstrations demanding the arrest of Mr. Hallappa. Traffic jam Vehicular movement was paralysed on roads around M.G. Road in view of the protest demonstration of the Congress near Gandhi statue. While Janavadi Mahila Sanghate staged a demonstration near BBMP office, AIDYO, AIMSS and AIDSO held a protest near Mysore Bank circle.