People infected and affected by AIDS or the AIDS-causing HIV are the most unaided souls in society today. Despite diligent efforts to prevent the stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHAs), instances of disgrace and prejudice have been surfacing at regular intervals, calling for sincere efforts to put an end to this crying shame. The imperative need to protect the rights of PLHAs in general and the Right to Education of children living with HIV/AIDS has stirred a few like-minded forces active in this region to form a common platform and fight a united battle against the monstrous virus that has been causing untold misery to ‘vulnerable' sections of society. The Krishna District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU), in coordination with the city-based Vasavya Mahila Mandali (VMM) and the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), has set the ball rolling to operate an effective mechanism to reduce social stigma against the HIV-afflicted. A multi-stakeholders' forum, formed with representatives of various fields as its members, recently met in the city to thrash out a solution to the issue. “The objective is to create leadership at every level and impress upon the authorities concerned to introduce effective policies for welfare of the PLHAs,” said Narender Ravelli, moderator of the session. Former MP and VMM president Chennupati Vidya called for shunning ‘lip service' and switching over to ‘action mode'. “It's time we got down to some action now,” she said, asking the stakeholders to identify the areas where they could contribute their mite to the cause. Krishna District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) U. Prasada Rao said that social discrimination was an age-old evil. “We need to focus on cultural advancement to get the better of the situation,” he suggested. Additional DMHO T.V.S.N. Sastry said the ‘intolerance' towards PHLAs would do more harm to them than the virus that had afflicted them. Pointing to the manifold rise in the government services, he urged them to utilise the facilities. He also wanted active involvement of the youth in the anti-AIDS drive. Former Mayor Tadi Sakuntala mooted aggressive campaign to drive home the point. Schoolteachers and corporation-level leaders must be involved, she felt. Project Director of the Women and Child Welfare Department, Krishna district, K. Suhasini Devi, suggested to the media to desist from negative publicity of isolated cases. The forum also launched a signature campaign to drum up support for the cause.