All Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in Krishna district will soon be converted into Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTCs). “This is being done to ensure easy access to medical facilities for victims of the dreaded HIV,” says Krishna District AIDS Control Officer T.V.S.N. Sastry. Dr. Sastry, who is also the Additional District Medical and Health Officer, Krishna, says the PHCs will also be equipped with STI (Sexually Transmitted Infections) clinics and the conversion will happen in December itself. The District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU), meanwhile, is gearing up to host a string of awareness programmes to mark the World AIDS Day on December 1. A massive rally by 1,000 to 1,500 people representing non-governmental organisations (NGOs), Youth Red Cross units and college students will be taken out from Raghavaiah Park around 10 a.m. The rally will culminate in a meeting at Tummalapallivari Kshetrayya Kalakshetram. District Collector Peeyush Kumar will address the meeting around 11 a.m. The DAPCU will host the programme under the auspices of Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society (APSACS). The practice of observing World AIDS Day started on December 1, 1988 and the event is all about raising money, increasing awareness, fighting prejudice and improving education. The World AIDS Day theme for 2010 is ‘Universal Access and Human Rights'. “In the last few years, we have achieved a great deal of success in enhancing the awareness level among people. But we still have a long way to go and it is important to remind people that HIV has not gone away and that there are many things still to be done,” says Dr. Sastry. Moving a step forward this year, the DAPCU plans to observe the important day by kicking off a signature campaign against stigma and discrimination against People Living with HIV. Over 100 giant banners will be positioned at the venue to enable people to express solidarity with the cause. “As part of the drive, we intend to collect at least 1 lakh signatures,” he says. Besides, children affected by AIDS (CABA) and Youth Red Cross Units will play active part in spreading the word against the dreaded virus.