Poignant depiction C.D. Jain capturing childhood in contrasting reality   | Photo Credit:  Besides capturing the joyous moods of childhood, artist C.D. Jain also deftly portrays the issue of child abuse in his paintings and drawings, writes Sumit Bhattacharjee Real life incidents do have an impact on one's inner passions. And if he or she has an artistic bent of mind, then the impact could be even more profound. The true story of a child prostitute somewhere in the southern most tip of Tamil Nadu, who was sold by her parents to drive away the pangs of hunger, did change the life of C.D. Jain, the artist from Parassala, Kerala, forever. Since 1996, he has been filling his canvas with the images of marginalised children, with his deft hands. Each canvas narrates a poignant tale of deprivation, touching sensitive issues like sexual exploitation, child labour and abuse and destitute and hungry children. “She was just a 13-year-old innocent girl with dreams in her eyes, when she was sold to a pimp for a small amount by her parents. And after entertaining about 10 clients on a daily basis for about two years in a brothel in Mumbai, she was diagnosed as HIV positive and abandoned to her fate. A HIV positive at the age of 15 for no fault of hers, isn't that a rude jolt to life? That meeting at a NGOs place changed my creative subject and outlook. The nipping of innocence at its bud stirred my passion, and since then I have been trying to depict these little children with parched hands, broken and bent bodies and above all else a shattered soul in my works,” says Jain. So far, he has produced about 240 works on this subject and each he says is inspired from real life cases. Using different mediums like charcoal, mixed, water, acrylic and oil on canvas, he creates a window into the lives of these marginalised children for the society to see and react positively. “I interchange the medium depending on the intensity of the theme. If the theme revolves round child abuse then I tend to go for charcoal or mixed medium. Apart from depicting child abuse, I also create paintings out of sheer imagination reminiscing my childhood. “Childhood is the most cherished period of one's life, surrounded by nature and love of grandparents. A section of my work is dedicated to this theme. In this case, most of my work is based on play of bright colours be it water, acrylic or oil on canvas,” he says. In the budding days, the artist dabbled with various themes that included environment and nature. He also created a series on Babri Masjid demolition and named it as ‘December's Widow'. “This series was widely appreciated by many intellectuals, including the Editor-in-Chief of your paper N. Ram,” says Jain. He believes in living his life through the reflection of his works and for which he tours extensively to interact and understand his subjects. “If my work with charcoal and mixed medium conjures up the agony and anguish of the marginalised children, then my works in oil, acrylic and water delves in the joyous and innocent expression of the children,” points out Jain. Apart from being an artist he is an ardent child educator and spends invaluable time with these marginalised children through therapeutic art workshops. “The idea is to add some colour in their dark and damp lives,” says the artist. A recipient of Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Award and Rippon Kapur Fellowship, he was also the consultant for UNICEF's Save the Children and World Vision projects. So far he has conducted over 8 solo exhibitions and participated in 8 group shows. Apart from India, he has private collections in UK, Germany, France, Holland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, USA and Australia. C.D. Jain is here for a weeklong (April 10 to 17) solo exhibition of his paintings and drawings at Visakha Museum.