In protest mode: Children protesting with empty plates against delay in reimbursement of tuition fees at Moghalrajapuram in Vijayawada on Tuesday. — PHOTO: RAJU. V    The bandh of educational institutions called by the joint action committee of student organisations to protest against the delay in reimbursement of tuition fees proved to be a success in the city on Tuesday, as most of the private schools and colleges voluntarily suspended classes for the day. The few that opened early in the day announced the closure soon after the activists of student organisations trooped in and reminded them about the strike. The majority of the students studying in private educational institutions were informed in advance by the school managements about the bandh and the closure of the school. However, government and municipal schools started their daily routine ignoring the bandh call. Within an hour or so, activists of the different student organisation like the SFI, PDSU, TNSF and AIDSO came in and impressed upon the headmasters and teachers to suspend the classes for the day as the issue for which they were enforcing the bandh pertained to all students. The managements of corporate colleges closed most of their branches voluntarily, while a few that remained open for running classes for special sections had to be shut after the student activists trooped in. Students of Boyapati Sivaramakrishnaiah Municipal School at Moghalrajapuram participated in a demonstration organised by the student activists and raised slogans against the government's ‘negligent' attitude towards payment of scholarships. Holding empty plates, they enacted a begging scene at the Jammichettu centre here, seeking financial support for their education. “When our college management received information about the bandh, where was the need to call us for classes? They should have informed us in advance. We had a tough time catching the bus to return home,” said a student of an engineering college at Kanuru. The major demands of student organisations included immediate sanction of pending scholarships for the academic year 2009-10, effective implementation of tuition fee reimbursement scheme, providing quality education in government schools, regulation of school fees in private schools and improvement of basic amenities in hostels. “The government has been neglecting our genuine demands for a long time. It should act on the demand for increasing the scholarship amount in accordance with the rise in prices of essential commodities and provision of quality food in the mid-day meal scheme,” said Ch. Krishna, central committee member, SFI. He claimed that the bandh was successful in other places in Krishna district, including Machilipatnam, Vuyyuru, Gudivada and Avanigadda. Most of the educational institutions remained closed on Tuesday in response to a bandh call given by Student Federation of India, Guntur unit. The students carried a protestor attired as Chief Minister and had him sleeping on a cot in a mock protest deriding the lax attitude of the Government. The procession was taken along the main road before culminating at the Sankar Vilas junction. Later, the activists staged a rasta roko at the junction. SFI district secretary D. Lenin said the Government had failed to address the problems faced by the students. He also faulted the Government for releasing a token amount of about Rs.300 crore while the total scholarship dues have mounted up to Rs.3,000 crore. City secretary V. Bhagwan Das flayed the Government for delay in proving text books though it has been a month since the schools began. SFI leaders K. Anuradha, Y. Krishnakanth, Sk. Nagur were present.