LAWN STORY The students of this college share an intimate relationship with this space   | Photo Credit:  SHIVANI YADAV ACHARYA NARENDRA DEV COLLEGE The hangout: The front lawn Rush hour: 2 pm to 4 pm What's to love? A small campus wouldn't be expected to offer many options to the students but Acharya Narendra Dev College, the first college of Delhi University to introduce B.Sc.(Hons) Biomedical Science, stands out in this regard. Making most of the space available, the campus is teeming with hangout zones which beckon the student community to revel. However, it is the lush lawns, lined with huge trees, right at the entrance which score outright with the youth brigade here. “In between the classes, especially in winters, nothing can match the joy of resting in the front lawns with friends and talking and eating. The ecology club also holds its meetings here,” says Mani, a second year student. Many can be seen sitting here in peace and completing their laboratory files and assignments. A little ahead is the accounts section and the staircase covered with a canopy well manage to attract the students all year long. People here absolutely swear by the canteen and its food. Tells Prateeksha, a first year student, “We can sit, eat, study, play and even sleep in the canteen. In fact, we spend more time here than in the classes.” Ahem! Well, Prateeksha's frank admission may not be really appreciated by her teachers. After all, the college has taken its name after the educationist and reformist Acharya Narendra Dev and is known for its academic excellence. What's not to be? Though the front lawns are a great prospect in the evening, one needs shade in the hot afternoon and so, the students have to retreat elsewhere to seek cover. “Snacks and ice-creams offered in the canteen are delicious and reasonably priced but for a proper lunch most prefer to carry their own boxes of home-cooked food,” says Sohini, a second year student. Alternatives There is a cluster of benches in front of the canteen where the zoology students can be seen chilling out. The area is fondly called the “Zoology Teela”. The library, they say, is a heaven for the geeks, only to be visited a few days before the exams otherwise! Reveals Radhika, a research student, “We have a sports ground behind the building. It was close to the library earlier and one would always find students waiting for their friends. Also, being a student of Entomology, I would often go there to collect bugs for the practical classes.” Today, the lawns come alive when there is a sports event in the college.