Quality check: Health Minister M.R.K. Paneerselvam (third right), Agriculture Minister Veerapandi S. Arumugam (second right) and Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare S. Gandhiselvan (right) inspecting the kitchen at newly-constructed Government Nursing Training College and Hostel in Salem on Monday. — Photo: E. Lakshmi Narayanan    The government has appointed 30,000 persons, including doctors, nurses, para-medical staff and technicians, in the past four-and-a-half years in the Department of Health, said Health Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam. Inaugurating the admission to first year in Government Nursing College, ATM centre and napkin vending machine on the premises of Government Medical College here on Monday, the Minister said that the State had 17 government-run medical colleges and four nursing colleges. A total of 223 private nursing colleges were functioning in Tamil Nadu, thus, churning out about 10,000 nurses per year. Another 1,000 nurses would be given jobs this year. Steps had been taken to start post-graduate course and Doctorate in Nursing in Salem college. An additional 39 colleges would be opened shortly. Union Minister of State for Health S. Gandhi Selvan said that the ratio of one doctor per nurse would be changed to one doctor for three nurses shortly. The Centre had sanctioned a sum of Rs. 120 crore to start six new nursing colleges. Similarly, a sum of Rs. 1,370 crore would be allocated to open 137 male nursing colleges. Six hospitals exclusively to treat HIV/AIDS patients had also been opened. The One rupee, one napkin scheme would begin in 150 districts at a cost of Rs. 90 crore all over the country. In Tamil Nadu, it will be introduced in Cuddalore next month. Under the Union Government, 676 ANM training institutes, 2078 GNM training institutes, 1244 nursing colleges, 312 post-graduate nursing colleges had been functioning in the country. A total of 1.70 lakh students used to come out of them every year, he pointed out. Agriculture Minister Veerapandi S. Arumugam while distributing welfare assistance to 596 beneficiaries at a cost of Rs. 55.8 lakh said that Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had accorded top priority to health sector and the people of Tamil Nadu by introducing many innovative schemes. He said that various development works for the medical college and nursing college would be taken up shortly. All required medicines had been stocked in the government hospital here. Health Principal Secretary V K Subburaj presided over the meeting in which health officials and others participated. The Ministers also inspected the super-speciality hospital.