K adala Tadiya Tallana — Karavaliya bahusamskritiya kuritada lekanagalu edited by Usha Kattemane and Purushottama Bilimale is an important attempt in unravelling the enigma surrounding the ommunalisation of the region. It is a collection of more than 30 articles, story, memoirs and poems written on the subject. They approach the problem from different angles but share a common thread. Even though some of the articles are old and written for a different context, they contribute to the totality of the purpose. For example, article written by scholar Amrita Someshvara, gives a vivid picture of the nature of cultural plurality of coastal Karnataka. The enduring influence of Buddhism and Jainism on the different communities of the region is clearly traced in the article. Articles by S.D. Shetty and Mariyappa Bhat actually complements the observation of Someshvara. While Bhat's contention of peaceful transition of one faith to another faith especially from Jaina to Vaishnava is contestable, it nevertheless provides detailed picture of the rich religious and plural cultural traditions of the region. Usha Kattemane and several others brings to the fore the unique culture of Bhootaradahana. Gayatri Navada's article on the feminist discourse in the Tulu “padanas”, underscores the inherent independence and the democratic values that the people of Coastal Karnataka cherished. Likewise B.M. Ichlangod's scholarly article on the uniqueness of the Byari muslims of the region and their umbilical relationship with the rest of the society and their cultural contribution to the region is a treatise to read. Thus, in a way, these articles provide an understanding of what we are losing with the advent of hegemonic and homogenising Hindutva forces. This is supplemented by the childhood memoirs of certain important cultural personalities like Fakir Mohammed Katpadi, S.R. Vijaya Shankara, U.R. Anantamurthy and others. All these autobiographical sketches admirably bring out how all their differences were negotiated through the guiding beacon of humanism. The inclusion of the story “Ondu Tundu Gode” by Boluvaru Mohammed Kunhi makes the narrative more intimate and understandable. A special mention should be made about H. Nagaveni's article which maps the social, political and cultural changes brought about by the combined effect of Land Reform legislation introduced by the Devraj Urs Government and the advent of modernity in the industrial sector. The insightful articles by the journalists and scholars like Dr. Muzaffar Asadi, Dinesh Amin Mattu, G. N. Mohan, Shashidhar Bhat and Bhaskar Hegde, trace the changes that are occurring in the political and social landscape of the region. Article by Gulabi Bilimale gives a threatening picture of the impact of Hindutva terrorism on the daily lives of the people of Karavali. The concluding articles by G. Ramakrishna, V. Laxminarayana, Sara Aboobacker, K.V. Tirumalesh and D.S. Nagabhusahana not only put the book in perspective but also serve by giving hints and lessons for secular and progressive politics to follow in future. The book is a successful attempt in understanding the greatest challenge of our times and is a must read for all those who are disturbed by the developments in the coastal Karnataka. SHIVASUNDAR