FIRM RESOLVE: Students of the Government Higher Secondary School, Kaniyambadi, taking a pledge to avoid and prevent drug abuse at a programme organised in their school in connection with the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. — Photo: D. Gopalakrishnan    School students were told about the dangers of drug abuse and asked to create awareness among the community of the need to avoid abuse of drugs, at an awareness programme organised jointly by the Field Publicity Office, Government of India, Vellore, office of the Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS), Vellore and the National Service Scheme (NSS) of the Government Higher Secondary School, Kaniyambadi on the school premises on Tuesday in connection with the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. K.S.T. Suresh, DDHS, Vellore who inaugurated the programme, said though coffee is a common beverage, consuming excessive coffee frequently would amount to substance abuse since an excessive intake of caffeine, the main substance found in coffee would lead to health problems. Referring to the tendency among youth, especially students to consume intoxicating drugs in order to relieve themselves from school or home-related worries, he said that the students should develop the habit of sharing their worries or problems with their close friends or relatives in order to relieve themselves of the worries. Dr. Suresh said that there was a habit among youth working in petrol stations to suck petrol or diesel through the nose in order to get a kick. This is a bad habit, he said. He urged students to create awareness among the people in their village or street about the ill-effects of drug abuse. Raja Sivanandam, Deputy Director of Medical Services (Tuberculosis) said that a worrying trend in this decade was the tendency of students to take to drugs to forget their problems in schools or homes. Consumption of intoxicating drugs attacked the cerebellum in the brain, which is the seat of stability. Consumption of such drugs would therefore lead to the person developing an unsteady gait. A study has revealed that 60 per cent of persons who committed suicide were drug addicts. The programme was being conducted for school students since they constituted a vulnerable group, and also because they would spread the message fast in the community, he said. T. Sivakumar, Field Publicity Officer, Vellore who delivered the keynote address said that previously, drug abuse was confined to urban areas, but now it had spread to the rural areas as well. Those who have the habit of taking drugs through injections were prone to Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) since they might get the infection through the use of the same needle used by a Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-infected person. Out of 1.5 crore persons who took drugs through injections, 30 lakhs had AIDS. He called upon the students to take steps to rescue drug addicts in their neighbourhood from addiction by taking them to the nearest drug de-addiction centres. There were 376 drug de-addiction centres run by non-governmental organisations, and 100 run by the government hospitals and primary health centres throughout the country, with funds provided by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, he said. G. Sundar, headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, Kaniyambadi who presided called upon the students to imbibe the message from the programme and create awareness among the people in their villages about the deleterious effects of drug abuse. By consuming intoxicating drugs, the students would be incurring the disrespect and hatred of others including their parents, he said. P.V.V. Murthi in Vellore