energetic start: Actor and social activist Shabana Azmi along with Oxfam India CEO Nisha Agrawal and youth action partners launching the Oxfam International Youth Partnership Programme “Kaleidoscope” in New Delhi on Monday. Photo: S. Subramanium    Bollywood actor-cum-social worker Shabana Azmi on Monday said the benefits of economic growth and progress must reach the marginalised communities in the country. Launching the fourth cycle of the Oxfam International Youth Partnerships Programme, “OIYP Kaleidoscope”, an eight-day event in the Capital, Ms. Azmi called upon the younger generation to make a significant contribution for a better world. “Look at the history of the world -- wherever revolution or changes have taken place, the youth have played a major role. Population boom was always regarded as an issue in our country but not anymore as our huge young population can bring about a major change. Also bear in mind that youngsters come with fresh energy and vibrant ideas,” says the actor. The actor expressed hope that the “OIYP Kaleidoscope” would benefit youngsters from 98 countries. “I feel that a novel initiative like this one involving enthusiastic young social activists can go a long way in creating a positive impact in creating a better world. At a time when youngsters are so career-conscious, these participants are taking time out from their studies to work within their communities.” Pointing out that she had raised in Parliament and outside issues concerning women and slum communities living in Mumbai, Ms. Azmi said her father, Kaifi Azmi, started an organisation in Mijwan village in Azamgarh. “When he passed away, I worked in the village. It had no street but we are now running three schools and girls receive vocational training. Namrata Goel, who came from London to work in this village, became the strongest advocates of change. We need more such people.” Oxfam Australia Executive Director Andrew Hewett said India is a mature and stable democracy where the civil society plays an active role. It is befitting that the first event organised outside Australia is being held in India. The initiative taken by Oxfam will give youth action partners, aged between 18 and 25 years, a chance to know how they can help their community in combating HIV/AIDS and work for peace and livelihood opportunities. Oxfam India Chief Executive Officer Nisha Agrawal pointed out that two Indias are existing as the inequality between the haves and the have-nots had widened. Our job is to link the two Indias. Every human being has a right to live with dignity. It is important to highlight this issue among our middle class in order to bring about an attitudinal change... To address this issue we are focusing our efforts in working for the upliftment of women, Dalits and Muslims.” The “OIYP Kaleidoscope” seeks to refine knowledge and skills of 300 youth action partners. They have been chosen from over 3,000 applicants, coming together to learn the skills required to undertake community-based work.