In an effort aimed at extending HIV/AIDS testing services to more areas and having an accurate data of persons with AIDS, the State Government has began efforts to establish Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTCs) in private hospitals. The ICTCs are to be established under the public-private partnership mode, in keeping with the objectives of the Phase Three of the National AIDS Control Programme. The target for Tamil Nadu is 200 ICTCs. Tamilnadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS), which will oversee the establishment of the centres, will offer training on HIV/AIDS, TB, and sexually transmitted infection to a medical officer, two nurses and a lab technician of the hospital concerned. The Society will supply free of cost testing kits, post-exposure prophylaxis drugs, medicines, delivery kits, etc. The hospitals, however, are allowed to charge a maximum of Rs. 75 to meet incidental expenditure. In Coimbatore, the District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit is planning to set up ICTCs in 15 hospitals. These will be in addition to the nine ICTCs that are functioning, says B. Mohamed Ali, District Programme Manager. The District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit is already in talks with hospitals to establish six of the 15 ICTCs. As per TANSACS' guidelines, the hospitals have been chosen after ensuring that they are in an urban area catering to a population of around 75,000. The other mandatory requirements are round-the-clock service with a specialist on call, an operation theatre, a labour room, a minimum of 10 beds with a monthly average of 10 deliveries, a laboratory, 24 x 7 dispensary and a computer with internet connection. Aside from increasing the ICTC number, the Control Unit will also ask all private hospitals in the district for a monthly report on the number and details of ante-natal cases and those with HIV therein. Likewise, it will ask blood banks to submit a report on blood donation camps, units collected and details of persons found positive during blood test. This is to not only arrive at an accurate figure of persons with HIV but also ensure that such persons get medical care and counselling. At present, the district office has data only from Government establishments.