Cause for concern: National AIDS Control Organisation Director-General K. Chandramouli (left) and AP State AIDS Control Society Project Director R.V. Chandravadan release a book, during their visit to Vasavya Mahila Mandali in Vijayawada on Monday .   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has the highest HIV prevalence rate in the country and the coastal region in the State has the densest population of HIV positive people, according to K. Chandramouli, Director-General of the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO). Speaking to the media on Monday on the sidelines of his visit to Vasavya Mahila Mandali, a city-based non-governmental organisation working for rehabilitation of HIV infected and affected sections through several community-based care and support programmes, Mr. Chandramouli, however, said that there was a ray of hope, as the incidence of HIV was on the decline across the nation. “The number of cases is coming down and we intend to scale up measures to prevent fresh cases of HIV infection besides providing adequate treatment to those affected by the virus for improving their quality of life,” he said. Mr. Chandramouli skirted queries by reporters on the alleged misuse of funds allocated to the Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society (APSACS) for implementation of various welfare measures for the HIV-infected and affected population. “Bring to me specific cases and we will enquire into them,” he said. Vyamavaram. Later, addressing a meeting, the NACO chief spoke about the need for “targeted interventions” to check the spread of virus. He, however, cautioned that these interventions could be tricky. “It needs dedication and patience. You must develop strategies that can be sustained in the long run and can later be linked to the government mechanism,” he said. Mr. Chandramouli interacted with children’s support groups, members of Prerana Friends’ Club, school and adult support groups, members of Grannies Club, volunteer peer groups and kids from the Children’s Village set up by the VMM at In a separate interaction with the media, APSACS Project Director R. V. Chandravadan expressed serious concern over the issue of child trafficking. He admitted that child trafficking, along with other issues like the large-scale migrant population, was further contributing to the spread of AIDS in the State and said the Government intended to scale up efforts to keep a check on this degenerating trend. AIDS Control Officer for Krishna district T.V.S.N. Sastry, National Officer PPTCT Suresh Mohammed, team leader for National Technical Support Unit Rajan, national president of Indian Medical Association G. Samaram, president of VMM Chennupati Vidya, secretary Rashmi, technical support manager B. Keerthy, medical advisor Deeksha and others were present.