Diet matters: Women inmates at the Destitute Rehabilitation Centre at Jyothinagar in Mysore. — PHOTO: M.A. SRIRAM    In the wake of the recent deaths of inmates at the State-run Destitute Rehabilitation Centre (DRC) in Bangalore, the DRC in Mysore received an Order from the Department of Social Welfare a couple of days ago directing that it serve non-vegetarian food to its inmates once a week. The decision is perhaps aimed at serving a balanced diet to the inmates, most of whom are said to be malnourished and anaemic. Sources in the department here claimed that the DRCs in other districts might have also received the order, but as of now, only the Mysore DRC could confirm its receipt. The diet of the inmates here was restricted to vegetarian with rice, rasam, ragi balls and curds being served every day. They were also given egg and banana thrice a week. The Mysore DRC authorities said the non-vegetarian food would be served once a week beginning Sunday. A senior official of the department here confirmed receipt of the order and said necessary arrangements were being made for its implementation. However, the sources claimed that officials here had been asked to serve egg and banana once or twice a week instead of thrice a week, once the non-vegetarian food was introduced. This will be the first time non-vegetarian food is introduced at the DRC here. Some inmates are eagerly looking forward to the new diet. Despite the officials' claims, vegetarian food served to the inmates was not in accordance with guidelines. An inmate had complained that the food served to them lacked nutrition and most of the time gruel made from ragi was served. Meanwhile, Dr. Venkatesh Babu of the Urban Primary Health Centre at Jalapuri here, who is one of the doctors at the centre, said nearly 80 per cent of the inmates suffered from mental illness and a few others from skin diseases. “The mentally ill patients are unable to maintain personal hygiene and most of them are treated by psychiatrists. Overall, the health condition of the inmates is not serious,” he felt. The inmates are taken to Urban PHCs at Jalapuri and Jyothinagar here for treatment of minor ailments, and two doctors from these centres, Dr. Babu and Dr. Neeladevi, visit the centre during weekends in order to check their health. More than 40 inmates underwent HIV tests recently. Official sources said a committee comprising specialist doctors was being constituted to oversee the health of 222 inmates. The committee would be functional soon, as the process of identifying willing doctors from various hospitals was under way. The district administration plans to conduct a mega health check-up camp by specialists and provide appropriate medical treatment to the destitute people.