Informative: S. Raj Pandian of Southeastern Louisiana University addressing students of Kalasalingam University, Krishnankoil. (Right) NSS volunteers of Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi, donating blood at a camp.    The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering of Kalasalingam University, Krishnankoil, conducted a lecture on ‘Ground water robotics and human power utilisation' by S. Raj Pandian of Southeastern Louisiana University. In his address, Dr. Raj Pandian advised the future engineers to improve their practical skills than theoretical knowledge. He said that it was the responsibility of teachers to improve their students to international standards. S. Durairaj, Head, Department of ECE, presided. Soundra, final year student, proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Department of Visual Communication of Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, Sivakasi, conducted a three-day workshop on ‘Breaking the myth of computer graphics.' Raju Arjunan, the resource person, explained the process of making of ‘Avatar' film. He also discussed the career opportunities in film and advertising industry. He said that in the near future 3 D would dominate daily life from television to teaching. The Department of Hindi of the college organised a lecture on ‘Business and functional Hindi' by A. Marimuthu of Sri Kaliswari College. K. Manjula Devi, vice-president, Hindi Association, welcomed the gathering. K. Vijaya Bhaskara Naidu, president, delivered the presidential address. V. Vivek Viswanath proposed a vote of thanks. *** The Alumnae Association of Standard Fireworks Rajaratnam College for Women, Sivakasi, conducted a free ‘coffee painting' class for students. Rani Subramanian was the resource person. In all, 81 students participated in the course. *** The Citizen Consumer Club of Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi, conducted a lecture on ‘Buyer, beware' by J. Asokan of Virudhunagar Hindu Nadars' Senthikumara Nadar College. In his address, Mr. Asokan said that the public must be aware of the general laws of the land. While purchasing goods, one must verify the brand name, date of manufacture, expiry date, quantity, quality, price, size and colour of the product. M. Pradeep welcomed the gathering. The Principal, S. Kanmani, presided over the meeting. A. Annamalai Eswaran proposed a vote of thanks. The National Service Scheme units of the college conducted a blood donation camp in association with Government Hospital, Sivakasi, Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, and M. Pudupatti Government Hospital. It was inaugurated by P. Ayyanar, Chief Medical Officer, Government Hospital, Sivakasi. On hundred and seventy two volunteers donated blood at the camp. The Exnora unit of the college organised a lecture on ‘Natural resources and conservation' by G. Rameshkumar of VHNSN College, Virudhunagar. In his address, Prof. Rameshkumar explained the constituents of the environment -- atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere and biosphere. He discussed in detail the various natural resources and their significance. Unnecessary wastage of water must be prevented to save water resources and industrial effluents should not be allowed to contaminate water. R. Narayana Prakash, Director, Department of Biotechnology, welcomed the gathering. A.M. Vairamuthu, convenor, Exnora, proposed a vote of thanks. The Kalis-Raman Club of the Department of Physics was inaugurated by K. P. Radha of Standard Fireworks Rajaratnam College for Women. A. Subramanian, Vice-Principal, presided over the function. Prof. Radha also delivered a lecture on ‘Energy storage devices' on the occasion. A two-day workshop, ‘Sharpen your skills,' was conducted by the Com-World of Department of Commerce for first year students. A. Vetrivel welcomed the gathering. D. Selvaraj, Director, SEL Academy, the resource person, focussed on improving fluency in English. He pointed out that 60 per cent of reading habit had come down due to mobile phone usage among students. Kamalam proposed a vote of thanks. G. Radiga, former professor of history, delivered a lecture on ‘Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy, a renowned reformer.' She recalled the role played by Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy in the abolition of Devadasi system. Kanagalakshmi welcomed the gathering. A. Sujatha, Coordinator of Gender Cell, delivered the presidential address. Selvi Rosy proposed a vote of thanks. *** ‘Illavattam,'a state-level youth carnival was organised by the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society in Chennai. M. Guru Sankar, T.N. Appu, A. Robin Dass, O.NagaDevi, P.Julie, J.Rajalakshmi, and C.Ananth of Gandhigram Rural University won first prize in folk song event. They were honoured with a cash award of Rs.30,000 plus a certificate. C. Harish Kumar won third prize in drawing competition. He was honoured with a cash award of Rs.5,000 and a certificate. *** Red Ribbon Club was inaugurated at District Institute of Education and Training at Oddanchatram recently. A. Asai Thambi, Tamil Nadu Health System Project Coordinator, inaugurated the club. He said that the club would pave to healthy life of students' community. *** Students of Bharat Niketan Engineering College at Thimmarasanaickanur won first prize in the zonal-level basket ball tournament organised by the Anna University (Tiruchi) at Andipatti. D. Selvaraj, Deputy Superintendent of Police distributed prizes to the winners. *** A guest lecture programme was organised on ‘Socially Responsible Marketing' at N.S. College of Arts and Science in Theni. Jacqueline Gigi Vijayakumar, Professor, Fatima College Madurai, said that corporations should take into consideration the welfare of the society. She explained the concepts of green marketing, social marketing, cause- related marketing, ethical marketing and ethical advertising. Green marketing dealt with conservation of natural resources and reducing environmental pollution. Ethical marketing covers values and social conscience of corporations. Social Marketing dealt with concepts and techniques to achieve specific behavioural goals. Ethical advertising would ensure that advertising should not hurt religious, moral and social sentiments of the society. *** Contributed by S. Annamalai in Madurai and K. Raju in Dindigul