Depo Medroxy Progesterone Acetate (DMPA) is a contraceptive injection licensed for use by the Drugs Controller in the 1990s but later an intervention petition filed in the matter had led to the Drug Technical Advisory Board (DTAB) restricting its use to the private market. Now data on the contraceptive injection has linked its use to loss of bone density and increasing the susceptibility of the user to HIV. Also, in more than 15 years since the licence was granted there has been no reliable treatment for heavy bleeding suffered by a substantial proportion of women who are administered DMPA, according to health experts. Various women's organisations have consistently opposed the introduction of all long-acting hormonal injectables, including Net-En, and implants such as Norplant due to their hazardous side effects, potential of abuse and inability of the health system to deliver them safely. They now claim to be dismayed by repeated attempts of the Government to introduce these contraceptives in the family planning programme in total disregard of the health of women. The group including -- Population Commission of India, Research Centre for Women's Studies (Hyderabad), Centre for Women's Development Studies (Delhi) and Saheli Women's Resource Centre (Delhi) – have asked the Government to look into the matter urgently. Women's organisations have asserted that contrary to the claims of the Government nothing has improved in the public health system. “The health of the user has to be monitored to watch for an array of disturbing side effects of DMPA. The Indian public health system is too inadequate, inefficient and indifferent to do this work properly. Up to two-thirds of the women on DMPA suffer menstrual chaos which may be culturally unacceptable to them,” noted a release issued by the women's group. The release said the data from post marketing study done by the Population Council is rather discouraging. “Despite training some doctors had poor recall of contraindications, indications, side effects and management of side effects. Doctors specialising in obstetrics and gynaecology were, however, better. The study has recommended that these specialists are suitable for delivery of these contraceptives. If the Government does not have enough specialists to deal with serious health problems of women, can they be at least be deployed to improve the basket of choices of contraceptives,” said the women's groups. The group has now demanded that in the light of the data thrown up by post-marketing studies, the DTAB should restrict the use of DMPA to well-trained doctors and extend this restriction for non-government organisations that are using this injection in their programme.