Staff Correspondent Chitradurga: After halting in Bellary and Raichur, the Red Ribbon Express II will arrive at Chikjajoor Railway Station here on Sunday. Speaking to presspersons here on Saturday, District AIDS Nodal Officer Kumaraswamy said that the Department of Health and Family Welfare in association with the district administration and various non-governmental organisation had made elaborate arrangements to make the best use of the opportunity to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS in the district. The Red Ribbon Express is an initiative of the Centre and the National Aids Control Organization aimed at raising awareness on HIV/AIDS and providing expertise on related issues. Dr. Kumaraswamy said that over 5,000 people, including students, were expected to participate in the awareness programme to be inaugurated on the station premises by Minister for Revenue and district in-charge G. Karunakara Reddy. He said that at the camp, Syndromic Approach Treatment kits provided by the Government would be used to test for sexually transmitted diseases. Dr. Kumarswamy said that the train had eight bogies, four of which would showcase study material on HIV/AIDS, A(H1N1) influenza and tuberculosis. Coach number five would be used as a training centre where sessions on the prevention of HIV/AIDS would be conducted, he said. In coach number six, experts on HIV/AIDS could be consulted. The Karnataka Aids Prevention Society had arranged for two troupes to travel across Holalkere taluk spreading awareness on the infection through street plays. Special buses had also been arranged for the purpose. Dr. Kumaraswamy said that private educational institutions had been asked to bring their students to visit the Red Ribbon Express II. “All district- and taluk-level officials had been directed by the district administration to attend the programme,” he said and added that people could visit the train between 9.30 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Sunday. District Health Officer N. Venkatashivareddy was present.