YOUNG SPORTING TURKS Students at a practice camp organised by the BSSF    The BSSF is a platform that aims at preparing children for a career in professional sport A need for a creating a platform to prepare aspiring children and adults, and differently abled people with professional athletes for a career in sports led to the birth of Bangalore Schools Sports Foundation (BSSF) in 2007. Elvis Joseph and Lionel Johnas, two training partners and long-time friends and athletes of repute, are the brains behind the enterprise. “It has been a roller coaster ride for the last two years,” says Elvis, one of the directors. . He added, “In the last three to four months, the foundation has been recognised and accepted. The State education and sports and youth affairs ministers are our patrons.” “We feel that more recognition will help carry forward our objective of bringing individuals into sports, giving them required experience.” Supporting Lionel and Elvis in this venture are Mahua Kumar (director) and Sreekar (advisor). Bridging the gap Mahua Kumar says, “The parental role is what I am focussing on…we need to provide a ‘bridge' between the haves and have-nots.” She adds, “We are also interested in value-based community service. HIV infected children live to around 40 years and efforts can be made to make those years rewarding and fulfilling by providing them opportunities.” The country boasts of a massive talent pool, especially in the rural areas. However, children born in rural areas and small towns are handicapped by the lack of infrastructure. This lacuna is one of the challenges the BSSF aims at reducing. “We are addressing that issue with locality events and programmes which will be more logistical and developmental,” says Elvis. For the first time in 42 years, a team from India, represented by the BSSF, participated in the soccer events at the Children's Olympics at Athens in 2009. “Our players rubbed shoulders with the top soccer nations in the world. BSSF will be fielding a swimming contingent in both under 14 and under 16 categories at the Games in Bahrain from June 28 to July 3 this year. “The soccer players will also represent Bangalore and India at the AC Milan Continental Cup in Ohio, Cleveland (US) from July 1 to 5,” says Elvis. Lionel Johnas is currently travelling in Singapore for infrastructure and development programmes to be introduced. The Foundation has a host of events and programmes lined up for the coming months. The Freedom Cup, with 100 teams, 100 games, and a winner a day is an interesting format to salute the martyrs of our nation and this event is which will be scheduled to be held on August 15. A HIV sports camp and a fitness camp for children in prison is also scheduled for the first three weeks of May.