A. Martin, advocate and a member of the Tiruchi Payaneetalar Iyakkam, inaugurated the activities of the Citizen Consumer Club of Holy Cross College for the current academic year. He explained about the Consumer Protection Act 1986 and adulteration of food products. He mentioned about the functions of consumer redressal forum. S.M. Pushpa Rani, staff coordinator of the college spoke. *** D. Sivasubramanian, Principal of Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Tiruchi, inaugurated the Commerce Association of National College. He advised the students to develop communication skills in English. K. Anbarasu, Principal and R. Ramachandran, Head, Department of Commerce presided. *** A. Zameer Pasha, president, Rotary Club of Tiruchi Mid-Town installed the office-bearers of the Rotaract Club of Cauvery College for Women at an investiture ceremony held recently. The students of Thiruvallari Government Higher Secondary School were awarded prizes for their best feedback on the planetarium visit in Tiruchi which was arranged by the Rotaract Club. V. Sujatha, Principal, M. Jayaraman, president of college governing council and K. Rengarajan, secretary of the college presided. *** The Vivekananda Social Service Organisation (VSSO) in association with Universal Trust, White Rose Society, Srimad Andavan College and Holy Cross College, recently organised a programme on road safety measures at Mambazhasalai in Tiruchi. S. Raveendran, Assistant commissioner of Police (Traffic and Crime) and K. Subramaniyan, district coordinator, Nehru Yuva Kendra, released awareness hand bills and pasted bull's eye stickers on vehicles. R. Sridhar and T. Santhanakrishnan, president and secretary respectively of the VSSO attended the function. *** The activities of the St. Joseph's Institute of Management Association (JIMA) of the St. Joseph's College were inaugurated recently. Rakesh Babu Lal, territory head, ICICI Bank, presided over the function. In his address he quoted the words of former President, A. P. J. Abdul Kalam “dream, dream, dream,” which motivated the students to mould their future. S. Gnaana Bhragasam, Dean of Studies, introduced the new office-bearers of the JIMA. Rv. Fr. A. Anthony Pappuraj, Director of the St. Joseph's Institute of Managemment, administered the oath of office to the following new office-bearers: president: P. Jega Patrick; vice-presidents: S. Karthikeyan (II MBA) and S. Richard Swedish (I MBA); secretary: M. Lavanya (II MBA); joint secretary: D. Jesu Arogya Shiromi (I MBA) and treasurer: R. Prasanna (II MBA). The first-year students were welcomed at the end of the event. The students also presented cultural programmes. *** The Anti-dowry Association of Jamal Mohamed College, recently formed ‘Helping Hearts,' a new forum to carry out activities for the benefit of differently-abled people. As part of the club activities, educational audio cassettes were distributed to visually-challenged students at Mannarpuram Blind School. S. Ashik Hameed, Deputy Warden of Khajamian Hostel and G. Abdul Javid, founder of Helping Hearts, presided. *** The NSS unit of Pavendar Bharathidasan Polytechnic College, Mathur, and Mahatma Eye Hospital jointly organised a day-long eye awareness camp at the college premises. A team of doctors and nurses of the hospital explained the different concepts of eye protection. The students, staff and employees of the college were screened for eye disorders. V. K. Raman, Principal, inaugurated the camp. *** The Electronics and Communication Engineering Department of M.A.M. College of Engineering and Technology , Siruganur, recently conducted a programme on ‘RF MEMS and its application.' S. Suganthi, Head, Department of ECE, Tiruchi Engineering College, explained about the MEMS concepts, advantages and disadvantages, and industrial applications. K. Kumar, Principal, B. Syed Moinuddin Bokhari, Head, ECE Department of the college presided. *** The Jayaram College of Engineering and Technology conducted one-day workshop on ‘Java with Networking.' Ponarul, corporate trainer from Precesion Info Limited, was the resource person. He explained about the applications of advanced java on networking. . The session covered the basics of socket programming, client server interaction, remote method invocation using Java and Java servlets. S.A. Sahaya Arul Mary, Head, Department of Computer Science, explained the objectives of the workshop. N. Kannan, Principal, presided. *** The Chidambaram Pillai College for Women at Mannachanallur recently organised a week-long special NSS camp at Omandur. The NSS volunteers carried out service-based activities in and around five neighbouring villages of Omandur. An eye camp was conducted during the camp. J.A. Arul Chellakumar, NSS Coordinator of Bharathidasan University, was the chief guest. He advised the volunteers to create awareness among the people on AIDS, swine flu, ill-effects of drug abuse, etc. K. Sekar, Principal, presided. *** The Department of Human Resources and Placement of Arasu Engineering College at Kumbakonam recently organised a nine-day workshop on “Feel Employable,” a skill development programme for pre final- year students. As many as 386 students were subjected to SWOT (Strengths, Weaknessess, Opportunities and Threats) analysis. A model group discussion and mock interview sessions were held. A. Ramaswamy, Director, Trinity Academy, Thanjavur, K. Nirmala, HR Trainer, Vijetha Academy and K. Sivakumar, senior facilitator, were the resource persons. *** A day-long programme on soft skills was organised at the M. N. S. K. Engineering College, Pudukottai. P. Marimuthu, Principal of the college, inaugurated the programme. G. Viswalingam, Administrative Officer of the college, offered felicitations. A. B. Gurumurthy, was the resource person *** Contributed by K. Subramanian and Syed Muthahar Saqaf