DAYS OF DRAMA Neha Dhupia PHOTO: SHIV KUMAR PUSHPAKAR    School: Army Public School. College: Jesus and Mary College, B.A. History (Honours) “T he chief value in going to college is that it's the only way to learn it really doesn't matter.” These words that I read somewhere long ago aptly seem to sum up Neha Dhupia's reaction when asked about her college days. “Did I even go?” says the actress with mock laughter. “It was a long time ago. I attended Jesus and Mary College (JMC) and it was wonderful while it lasted.” She studied in Army Public School and, thereafter, graduated from JMC, Delhi University, with Honours, majoring in History. When asked if the change from a co-ed school to a complete girl's college was strange, she happily replies, “No not at all. It was a very refreshing change, in fact. I will confess I didn't really attend classes much because I was busy with other things. I was in the drama club of the college, and soon I was performing not only with the college group but outside of it as well.” The actor fondly recalls, “That is where my love for acting began and today, thankfully, I am still doing that.” Everybody has fond memories from their college days but Neha admits that having started work early she didn't realise when college came and went. “I think the most special thing I did in college were the few times I went there. I did make some close friends who I am still in touch with. It is frankly only those days that I miss and cherish.” After winning the Miss India-Universe title in 2002, Neha entered Bollywood in 2003 with “Qayamat: City Under Threat” and the journey has been a roller-coaster ride. This year she will appear in “Phas Gaya re Obama”, where she plays a gangster. “My character Munni gangster is a riot. I have done things I never imagined. I shot bullets from a rifle, slapped and abused men, and a man in the film even gets raped by female gangsters.” From an artistic theatre debut in acting to slapping and assaulting men on the silver screen, Neha Dhupia has been an interesting mix-bag. “But I will have to admit this is probably the hardest role I've ever played. I didn't think I would be able to do such a challenging character but, thankfully, my director had faith and convinced me to do it, and I was a pleasantly surprised when I saw the results,” ends the actress on an excited note.