MEN IN NEWS Gautam Menon and Dibakar Banerjee    LSD is minor masterpiece of three different episodes sewn seamlessly; Gautam Menon's film has noticed too Can it get worse? I heard from reliable sources about a few films released recently being removed from theatres in a couple of days. The sad thing is they didn't have anything to show as substitute. This is not the case only with Kannada cinema. Films are bombing everywhere. We don't get to know because most flops in other languages don't get released here. Now this doesn't mean films are not doing well. Gautam Menon's “Vinaithandi Varuvaya” is doing pretty well. The ever innovative director, in a masterstroke has released a subtitled version and friends at PVR say the collections are decent. When you meet a bleary eyed producer for coffee you know he's been binging the previous night. Chandru, the effervescent producer of the recently released “Swayamwara” couldn't hide his despair. “People seem to have developed an aversion for films. My film didn't get a decent opening even though it boasts of names like Diganth and Kitti. It's not a great film but nor is it trash,” says Chandru, who's known for his candour. “I will not blame the IPL. Look at ‘Aptharakshaka'. It's doing phenomenal business. So it's just that people have become very selective. They have to be goaded into watching a film.” Chandru will lose more than half the money he invested but confesses that he has to continue making films in the hope of repaying his creditors. “I have to get a hair cut and a shave or people will think I'm mourning my films fate,” said Chandru, with a smile that failed to reach his eyes. “LSD” turns the viewer into a voyeur. You feel like you're prying into the lives of strangers. You don't know them but are drawn into their lives. The film is a minor masterpiece of three different episodes sewn seamlessly by characters that are connected by a thin thread. If you expect sex you will experience ‘ dhoka' but will nonetheless emerge exhilarated. I have not watched Dibakar Banerjee's previous directorial efforts “Khosla Ka Ghosla” and “Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye!” but his stamp of authority shows a very confident filmmaker. The cast of newcomers, even those playing minor roles is simply outstanding but the best thing is the ruthless editing. I watched with amusement the other day as a smirking, self-righteous news anchor and a small screen ‘sati savitri' grilled Dibakar about the relevance of the title. As with most of our moral brigade they had not watched the film. With explicit content available in the cool confines of our homes at the click of the mouse, audiences are no longer drawn to theatres by ‘come hither' posters or cheesy titles. “Love, Sex aur Dhoka” is a must watch for cineastes who crave for innovation in craft as well as content. If you've heard the term ‘pushing the envelope' but not seen it then this is it. S. SHIVA KUMAR sshivu@yahoo.com