Students participate in a walk on the occasion of International Women's Day on Mahatma Gandhi road in Vijayawada on Monday.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA: On Monday when the Central government failed once again to push through the legislation for quota for women in Parliament and State legislatures, despite it being the centenary International Women's Day, the urgent need for political empowerment of women figured as the main concern of speakers at several meetings organised to celebrate the day. At a meeting organised by The Hindu in association with Maanya showroom (M&M Group) on the premises of Montessori educational institutions, Mayor M.V. Ratna Bindu hit out at those stalling the legislation. “It is unfortunate that the tabling of the Bill has been deferred yet again. We have been fighting for it for the last 14 years. Reservation for women in legislative bodies is the right of the fairer sex,” she asserted. Ms. Ratna Bindu said it was unfortunate that some political parties were opposing the Bill on ‘flimsy' grounds. “India occupies 99 {+t} {+h} position in the world as far as women's representation in politics is concerned,” she pointed out, maintaining that although the Congress president and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi was determined to make the long-cherished dream of 33 per cent reservation for women a reality, certain “vested interests” were out to thwart the attempt. Alluding to the demand for providing for a sub-quota for backward classes and Muslims in the reservation for women, the Mayor said there was definitely a need to facilitate representation of women from underprivileged sections of society too. But this could be achieved in phases and without obstruction of the present legislation. Director and Correspondent of the Montessori Educational Institutions V. Koteswaramma said the Bill was crucial since it would give women leaders a say in policy matters. Referring to the various existing laws pertaining to women empowerment, she cited the example of Domestic Violence Act, which, she said, was an effective tool to fight back violence perpetrated by spouse or other family members on the home front. Ms. Koteswaramma released a poster on domestic violence brought out by the Navajeevan Bala Bhavan. An elocution contest on ‘Women and Environment' saw enthusiastic participation by students. Anandita Nath and B. Priyanka of Andhra Loyola College came first and second, respectively, while Ahalya of Montessori Mahila College was given third prize. K. Renuka, president of ‘Cheyutha HIV Infected People Empowerment Society', founded by her in 2003, P. Syamala Devi, an advocate from the Juvenile Justice wing of the city-based NGO Navajeevan Bala Bhavan and Vani of Atlapragada of Krishna district, who was a victim of domestic violence but refused to buckle in to pressures to surge ahead and float Hetoshe, an organisation working for women empowerment, were felicitated on the occasion. A. Sunitha, HR Manager of the M&M Marketing Pvt. Ltd. graced the occasion. The celebrations began with a walk by college students from the Siddhartha Academy centre to Maanya showroom on M.G. Road. Veteran swimmer G. Vijayasree Gupta flagged off the walk and addressed the students. N. Satyanaranayan, Principal, P.B. Siddhartha College of Arts and Science, also addressed the students.