FRAME OF MIND Konkona Sen Sharma and Chitrangada Singh    The CSI calendar is different! It showcases celebs sporting a myriad emotions Child Survival India (CSI) is an organisation that strives to improve the quality of life of people in villages and slum clusters through HIV/AIDS prevention and care, maternal and child health, women empowerment and children's education. It has launched a calendar unlike any other in 2010. Conceptualised by Rajesh Ramakrishnan, EVP (Marketing) with Frito Lay, a division of Pepsico, the calendar features artistes caught in different emotions. Deepa Bajaj, the chief executive of CSI, was enthusiastic about the idea as the calendar would help raise funds for a shelter in Delhi for children with AIDS. Says Rajesh: “My idea was to shoot the A to Z of moods . Initially, we thought of featuring children, but then felt that getting them to emote each mood might get difficult. Hence, we decided to go with celebs.” He managed to rope in Juhi Chawla, Kay Kay Menon, Konkona Sen Sharma, Shreyas Talpade, Chitrangada Singh, Sivamani, Pradeep Sarkar, Usha Uthup, Divya Dutta, Simone Singh, Nandana Sen, Sona Mohapatra, Balki, Prahlad Kakkar and Ashwin Mushran. Rajesh says that they did this for free since it was for a good cause. The shots have been kept simple. They have been shot in natural light with minimal props . The calendar also has a unique design that allows the pictures to be flipped and changed depending upon your mood for the day. On-sets stories abound. “There were many interesting moments — we went looking for a cigar in Bandra for ‘Bliss', picked up a jalebi from an Udipi Hotel on the way to the shoot with Konkona showcasing ‘Guilt', got Juhi to sportingly use her hair as a moustache for a wonderful picture of ‘Mischief', rushed against time to catch Shreyas for the shoot and listened to Usha Uthup sing while shooting!” reminisces Rajesh. Rajesh's friend Aloke Bose, an advertising and design professional, was instrumental in putting together the graphics and the layout, and also completed the post-shoot work . Says Rajesh: “ Aloke came up with ideas for some while I did for others. My wife Nirupama wrote the one-liners for each emotion.”