The demolition of Municipal Corporation of Delhi-run Balak Ram Hospital and delay in its reconstruction without provision of an alternative has left several Tibetans residing in Manju ka Tila and adjoining areas, including Tibetan Colony, has not gone down well with the areas residents. Protesting against the absence of a hospital now, the residents allege that ever since the demolition of the Balak Ram Hospital they have become more susceptible to tuberculosis. Besides, in the absence of proper medical care, they claim to be now more prone to contracting the hardy variety of resistant TB. International non-government organisation TB Alert too has pointed out that in the absence of a testing facility in the area now, at least eight to 10 new suspected cases of TB are being referred by their volunteers at the district microscopic centre every month. “The hospital used to be the only testing and treatment centre for the one lakh-odd Tibetan community comprising of a large number of drug users, HIV positive persons and migrants but four months down the line, what remains of the hospital is a medicine give away counter only. The residents here are badly hit because of the demolition of the hospital and the Corporation should have ensured that the population remains protected and well cared for in the absence of the facility. What worries us is the fact that without proper treatment and medicines those who already have the diseases may develop a more resistant variety and could also infect other persons,” said project manager with TB Alert India Sapna Naveen. Stressing the importance of the role of volunteers in TB eradication programmes, Dr. Naveen said: “Opening of DOTS centre is not the solution. Integration of volunteers to the national TB control programme is the key to put forth checks and balances which otherwise can go unnoticed.” The emergence of drug-resistant strains of tuberculosis and concentration of the disease is a continuous threat for the rest of population residing in Majnu ka Tila and the adjoining areas of Nathupura, Sant Nagar and Azadpur which already have very high incidence of TB related cases, both infectious as well as non-infectious. “For sputum tests patients now have to travel to Kingsway Camp where private hospitals hardly comply with Revised National TB Control Programme treatment,” claimed Vimal Tank, a volunteer associated with TB Alert. Meanwhile, as per the latest report released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare out of the 176 lakh population covered under RNTCP in Delhi the total number of patients registered for treatment is over 10,345. The drug-resistant strain of TB, also known as MDR TB, has become a significant public health problem with around 593 MDR cases detected during the period.