Staff Reporter Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) will soon be able to offer the latest DNA-PCR test (Polymerase Chain Reaction) for detecting HIV infection in newborns within 45 days. The facility will soon be launched in the State once the test kit and the consumables necessary for taking and transporting the blood sample is made available by the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), a statement issued by the KSACS said here. The samples will have to be sent to the Tuberculosis Research Centre at Chennai for the PCR test. The risk of HIV transmission from a HIV-positive mother to her baby is about 30 per cent. At present, it takes at least 18 months before an infant born to an HIV-positive mother can be tested to confirm if the viral infection has been passed on to the child. This is because the HIV antibodies in the mother’s blood would have been passed on to the infant and regardless of whether the baby is HIV-positive or not, these antibodies are present in the babies’ blood till about 18 months. The advantage of the PCR test is that it can detect HIV infection months before the conventional antibody tests like Elisa can detect the infection. In adults, the PCR test can detect the infection as early as three weeks after the exposure to the virus. In newborns, however, one has to wait for the baby to turn one-and-a-half months of age for the test results to be accurate. HIV-positive mothers are usually given the drug Nevirapine when she goes into labour to minimise the chances of the transmission of the infection to the baby. As the risk of mother-to-child transmission is about 30-40 per cent, early detection of HIV-positivity in infants through PCR test will help initiate the antiretroviral therapy as early as possible. Unlike the conventional HIV detection tests, the PCR test for HIV diagnosis looks for the genetic information inserted into the DNA of the human cells by the virus and is hence very accurate. The PCR test can detect HIV infection even if it is completely latent. NACO has, however, made it very clear that the PCR test will be offered for free only for testing newborns and not for testing adults. The PCR test is available at many private diagnostic centres but is very expensive. This facility will be only for HIV-positive mothers who have registered at the ante-natal clinics - Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission (PPTCT) clinics – in government hospitals. As per KSACS data, from 2006 October to 2009 October, 303 HIV-positive mothers have delivered at government hospitals. Of the babies born to them, 300 were HIV negative.