RECOGNITION:A.M. Raman, Chairman, Pavendar Group of Institutions, giving away the scholarship to a student at Founder's Day function in Shrimati Indira Gandhi College for Women in Tiruchi.    The Founder's Day of Shrimati Indira Gandhi College was celebrated recently. The chief guest A. M. Raman, Chairman, Pavendar Group of Institutions, delivered the Founder's Day address extolling the services of K. Santhanam to the cause of higher education. He distributed scholarships to 71 students. On this occasion, S. Ravindran, Trustee, Sri Jagadguru Satapthi Educational and Medical Trust donated a cheque worth Rs.10,000 to Santhivanam Trust. K. Meena, Principal and S. Kunjithapatham, Secretary of College, spoke. The Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute at Kumulur celebrated the 14th annual sports meet and G. Kathiresan, Dean, Anbil Dharmalingam Agriculture College and Research Institute, Tiruchi, declared open the meet. A. Tajuddin, Dean, Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute, presided. A herbal garden with 50 species of medicinal plants was also inaugurated. The Department of Computer Science of Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College in Tiruchi organised a seminar on ‘Oracle 11g.' D.Sivasubramanian, Principal of the college inaugurated the seminar. This was followed by sessions on various topics in Oracle 11g version. N. Kasturirangan, secretary and K. Prema, Director of the college spoke. The Department of Social Work of Jamal Mohamed College in association with Operation Rainbow organised ‘Coping skills and meditation programme for HIV/AIDS infected people at Marist Brothers House in Tiruchi. I. Susai, Reader, Department of Tamil, St.Joseph's College, Tiruchi, was the chief guest and spoke about coping skills and Sister B.K. Mallika, president of Brahma Kumarigal Sangam, Tiruchi, spoke about meditation. I. Santhosh, Director of Operation Rainbow, Tiruchi, K. Parthasarathy, Assistant Professor of Department of Social Work of Jamal Mohamed College, Joseph Christuraja of Operation Rainbow spoke. The Pavendar Bharathidasan College of Engineering and Technology at Mathur recently organised a campus recruitment drive in which students from neighbouring colleges took part. Cybernet Slash Support of Chennai conducted the interview and 51 students from various colleges including 20 students from Pavendar Bharathidasan College of Engineering and Technology, were selected. N. Viswanathan, Placement Officer of the college, made arrangements for the recruitment drive. The Physics Association of National College organised a special lecture on ‘Antisotropic magnetic and transport properties of rare earth and metallic compounds.' R. Nagalakshmi, Assistant Professor, National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, who delivered the lecture, explored the possibilities of creating single crystals which were superconducting in nature . A. Krishnamurthy, Vice-Principal presided. S. Pari, Head of the Department of Physics, R. Ramasamy, vice-president of Physics Association spoke. K. Ramakrishnan College of Engineering organised a one-day faculty development programme on ‘Teaching Effectiveness.' Jayakar Chellaraj, former Principal of Bishop Heber College, Tiruchi, who was the chief guest, spoke on the various psychological aspects of learning. U. S. Sarvadayaparan, Director of the college, delivered the key-note address.