Memorable: Fun and frolic mark annual day celebrations of Regency college    The 16th annual day of the Regency College of Hotel Management and Catering Technology was mix of fun and frolic apart from students getting recognized for their meritorious achievements. Aruni Ray, Manager of Lemon Tree Hotels was the chief guest and reminded students that the tourism and hotel industry was booming and they have lots of opportunities. But they need to be highly skilled to explore and exploit better opportunities. He said Regency college had carved a niche for itself in the hotel industry producing highly professional graduates. Meritorious students who topped the examinations in college and University and those who won competitions in various events in and outside the college were given away medals and cash awards. The College Chairman, Mohd. Jaffer said that this year students have won many state and interstate level competitions showing their talent and creating a platform for them to have an excellent future in the hospitality industry. Rammohan Rao Chairman, Board of Studies, Osmania University gave an overview of a professional degree. P.Ramesh Kumar Reddy, principal and others were present. Garikapati Devala Rao, principal of the KVSR Siddhardha College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, has been conferred two awards at the national level. The Delhi-based International Institute of Education and Management (IIEM) has awarded “Rashtriya Vidya Saraswathi Puraskar” to Prof. Devala Rao. Also, the Indian Solidarity Council bestowed the “Lifetime Achievement Gold Medal” on Prof. Devala Rao for his services and contribution. He was also felicitated at a function held in Delhi recently for rendering his distinguished services in the field of pharmaceutical sciences. The Nalanda Degree College organised an awareness conference on the role of youth in spreading awareness about HIV AIDS. Speaking as chief guest, additional district medical and health officer Dr. T.V.S.N. Sastry said that in the society, people should not show discrimination against those suffering from the disease and mostly try to provide comfort to them. If proper care and support was given to the individuals suffering from AIDS, they would be able to live longer. District programme manager John Timothi, principal M. Anuradha and others were present. The Acharya Nagarjuna University has conferred Ph.D on G. Srinivas, lecturer at the NRI Institute of Technology, Agiripalli, said ANU research cell coordinator Pemmasani Narasimha Rao. Dr. Srinivas did research on “Theoretical studies up on long-range and short-range inter molecular inter actions in liquid crystals” under the guidance of Durga Prasad Ojha, principal of Andhra Loyola Institute of Engineering and Technology. College chairman R. Venkatarao, secretary and correspondent K. Sreedhar and others congratulated Dr. Srinivas. The MBA department of the Montessori Mahila Kalasala organised the ‘Freshers Day' celebrations with enthusiasm and energy recently. Cultural programmes like balloon blast, fashion show and such events were organised on the occasion. College secretary and correspondent V. Koteswaramma addressed the students when she said that the students would achieve success in their future lives and careers only with discipline, dedication and determination.