PETS AND THEIR PALS Volunteers at Blue Cross PHOTO: R. SHIVAJI RAO    A rmed with notepad and pen, like any journalist, I took the risk of riding pillion on Blue Cross volunteer Vaishnavi's bike, only to be toasted and fried by the sadistic sun by the time the gates of the Blue Cross opened to let us in. But the fatigue only lasted until a cheerful dog bounded up to us, tail wagging furiously. Since the drowsy months of summer, many students from nearby schools have taken to the place, volunteering to maintain the huge campus and its many inhabitants. As we waited for them to arrive after school hours, I decided to go around and get familiar with the place. The puppy enclosure is right up front, with high-pitched yelps coming from all over. Open the gate and a horde of cute puppies rush to you, tails spinning like a top on fire, huge puppy dog eyes boring into yours, fighting and tripping over each other to get your attention. Ten minutes later, as I try to leave, a small white pup with bowed legs, staggered over with great difficulty and looked up at me. I picked it up, unable to resist and immediately got a soft nudge on my nose. The kittens were all huddled up in cute fur bundles in their space. “Well fed and satiated,” chuckles a volunteer, as a puny brown one tried to climb the water vessel to reach in. Just as we prepared to came out, we found another one happily cosying itself inside my bag. Cats, dogs, cows, donkeys, hens, rabbits, turkeys and guinea pigs (a new-born the size of my thumb stared in fear at me the three seconds that I held him) are all cared for and anyone is welcome to help. Satya, a volunteer coordinator there, says there's something that everyone can do. “We have a host of activities for all kind of people. Some of them help with in-shelter stuff like walking the dogs, giving companionship and cleaning the enclosures. Those who don't like to touch animals but want to help can help with our fund-raising programmes, marketing, adoption procedures and other things. We have an active volunteer basis of about 30 people who keep coming in to do their bit.” I meet Mr. Don, an ex-army man, who manages the work there and also an old lady with a hunch, who the volunteers call  , a regular for the last 30 odd years, who comes to feed the animals. “Write about me,” she chuckles, “I've been here forever.” On the way to the office, I'm introduced to Rocky (Balboa), a furry, friendly mongrel who lost an eye in a fight and Tripod (who, evidently, has three legs) lazing around in the reception, only to spring up on call. Gunda the fat cat who, one of the volunteers later tells me, ‘never moves', sits at the entrance and stares soulfully. But perhaps the most endearing puppy of them all was Troy, a bundle of energy with a tail that can “whack you silly” as Vaishnavi puts it. Brought in with a decomposed leg, which was later amputated, Troy was named so because he survived the odds. But he doesn't seem think much of his missing leg. As he joyfully barks and tries to jump out of his cage, Vaishnavi tells me, “He can't walk anymore. He only runs.” By the time volunteers Arpita and Tarunya arrive with ‘Moooooo aaaahhhh for loving' (with a cow at the front) Blue Cross T shirts, I realise I have nothing to ask them. What could I possibly ask? I know why they volunteer. It all seemed so obvious as I shrunk away after hellos and goodbyes. I realised I had become a volunteer too. You don't have to clean the cages and take care of them to become one. You just need to show some love. To volunteer, fill in the form at www.bluecross.org.in or mail sathya@bluecrossofindia.org or bluecrossofindia@gmail.com. ANUSHA PARTHASARATHY