Emotionally yours Pravesh Rana    M r. India 2008 and   finalist, and former host of  , Pravesh Rana was in the Capital to promote his new sensational reality show   beginning today at 7 p.m. on UTV Bindass, which he is set to host. Excerpts from the interview: Trust is the most important factor in any relationship. If you don't trust your partner, it is good to clear your doubts. This show is like a mirror that addresses matters happening in the society. The show gives people support and the right way to understand the truth, which is hurtful but at the same time an eye-opener of sorts and, in many cases, a life-changing alteration. We want to tell people that the next might be you.  This time we have focused on North India. We have covered Delhi and other northern cities. People are very emotional in the north, whereas people in Mumbai are more practical. It is far more intense as compared to season I. When anything new shows the darkest side of society, people give a negative response initially. Anything path-breaking will always get negative support. It's only when people approach us do we go ahead with the sting operations, not on our own accord. If a guy or girl cheats his or her partner, it shatters the person completely. I try to counsel them that they have their whole lives ahead of them, so they should move on and try to find someone better and loyal. Also, it was a lovely experience anchoring this show and helping out people. I came to see the human side and emotional part of myself while doing this show. With the second season I hope to bring a difference to the couples in question in my own way by understanding the background and allowing each person in question to explain his or her stance. It was a fabulous experience to see talented children in our country. It really made me happy to see those energetic children. If you are in a relationship, be loyal.  . So this time think twice. Only the first shoot till now, with Emraan Hashmi and Ajay Devgn as guests. SHIVANI JAIN