ASK YOUR DOCA medical check-up can prevent an unhappy marriage    A medical horoscope can make or mar a marriage Medical problems may pose a serious threat to a successful marriage,” said Dr. M. Mohan Rao, Director, Dr. U Mohan Rau Memorial Hospital. “Youngsters are often ill-informed about their sexuality and sexual health management. Apprehensive brides and grooms approach us with questions, many of which relate to sexuality.” Subtle medical problems, detected before the event, can be rectified by medication or minor surgery, so get a “medical horoscope” done, he says. “Even a casual labourer's job overseas requires a medical fitness certificate. How come MFC isn't insisted on before a marriage?” Dr. Ishwar Gilada, HIV Consultant and Honorary Secretary, People's Health Organisation and Aids Society of India has said, “I am in favour of a complete pre-marriage medical check-up rather than only an HIV test. It should include all possible tests for all blood groups. This way, you ensure better medical compatibility between partners.” The Forum Against Oppression of Women suggests a disclosure clause in the marriage registration form. A question along the lines of “Have you revealed your HIV status to your prospective spouse?” must be compulsorily answered, it says. “The marriage registrar doesn't need to know, but the person should have communicated his/her HIV status with the to-be spouse.” The issue is too complex to have a simple yes or no, says gynaecologist Dr. Nirmala Jayshankar. “Girls have been rejected after parents disclosed details of minor and harmless procedures.” She isn't contesting coming clean on major ailments. Impotence and infertility must be made known. “In a society that blames women alone for childlessness, a check-up will help clear the air,” said Dr. Rao. Women should make that appointment with a gynaec for a pap smear and a pelvic exam. Undiagnosed sexually transmitted diseases can have a devastating effect on childbirth. In conversations, young men and women agree a medical horoscope is a necessity considering our changed perceptions about pre-marital sex. It may also clear misconceptions about lifestyle disorders. And it's only fair that the foundation for a relationship with a person is anchored in honesty GEETA PADMANABHAN