Swathi.V HYDERABAD: Sudha (name changed), a sex worker in the city, feels more confident now than ever. She no more needs to cower before police, be apprehensive about violent customers, or fear the consequences of risky sex imposed on her. “Earlier, we would be thrashed by brokers, abused by police and have a tough time with customers who would try all sorts of tricks to cheat us. Not anymore,” she says with a smile. The police, despite conducting raids, treat them more respectfully now, which was unimaginable about ten years ago. This newfound confidence among sex workers is the unintended off-shoot of HIV/AIDS awareness programmes funded by the State Aids Control Society and carried out through various Community Based Organisations (CBOs). The CBOs, created with the aim of roping in sex workers to spread awareness among the community, also instil courage in them by providing community support. Apart from educating about safer sex practices, the CBOs also teach them how to fight off excesses and combat social stigma. “Sex workers were the most marginalised lot and encountered abuse from almost every corner of society. Now, due to the cohesive atmosphere at the CBOs, they feel more secure,” B. Jayamma, head of Chaitanya Mahila Mandali, a CBO said. There were numerous instances in the past when the sex worker would be gang-raped on payment of a paltry sum. Now the situation has changed for better. Sex workers rarely go to the customer’s place. Whenever a sex worker is nabbed by the police, they call CMM to verify the credentials. Any attempt to fleece by the middlemen is returned with a thrashing by the co-workers. “Recently, when a member was found dead in a lodge in Karimnagar, the police called us to identify her. We informed the family about the death,” says Ms. Jayamma. Most often, families are not aware of the profession and CMM dutifully protects the secrecy. “We do not force the women to quit the profession unless she is HIV-infected. We only provide community support which they lacked earlier. If anybody wants to quit the profession, the organisation offers them support in finding alternative employment,” says Ms. Jayamma.