SHIVA NALLAPERUMAL This is the most beautiful song ever made. Composed by George Harrison, it is also one of the most complex. It’s one of the toughest songs to play — with intricate guitar lines, brilliant bass, awesome use of organ and piano, and, of course, Harrison’s soulful vocals. The bridge is especially well composed with the same tune playing over and over again, and each time, a new instrument is added. Addictive and soothing, the track is the ultimate cure for a bad day. Don’t cry may not be Guns N Roses’ magnum opus (that’s “November Rain”) or their signature song (“Sweet Child O Mine”), but it is the group’s most beautiful and soulful song. It evokes nostalgia and puts the listener into a trance. Very well composed, the song starts off slowly, gradually builds tension, and finally explodes with the chorus and guitar solo. Slash’s guitars are good and Duff’s bass lines are magical, but it’s the vocals by Shannon Hoon (from Blind Melon) and Axl Rose that captures the listener. Beautiful and touching, the song has the power to melt. The electric version (the original one) is just as good, but the acoustic version made for MTV unplugged is much more intricate and beautiful. A highly atmospheric song, it is very melodious with layered guitars and booming bass. Mike Inez shines in the song with his brilliant bass, a perfect backing for Jerry Central’s amazing rhythm guitaring. Layne Stayley’s voice is unmatchable, and touches you like no other. The song also has amazing backup vocals which just add to its soulfulness. This is definitely the band’s best track. Pink Floyd are known more for their detailed, progressive, song-based tracks but this song shows the psychedelic masters’ rock ‘n roll side. It is a pumping number and gets the listener hooked. The amazing pinch harmonics-led lead riffs, and rhythm backed by the remarkable bass will get you head-banging in no time. Roger Waters’ voice is amazing, showing that he can play the most complex of bass lines and still sing his heart out all at the same time (it is very tough to sing and play bass at the same time!). David Gilmour plays a killer solo, as usual. This is the sound of the most progressive band having fun, and anyone will have a ball playing this live! This song uses amazing orchestration with the sound of Aerosmith’s bluesy rock ‘n roll. This powerful track about child abuse is very well arranged and the various instruments such as trumpets and violins are perfectly used along with traditional rock instruments. It is high on energy, and has a superb melody. Aersomith prove themselves once more as masters of instrumentation, as nobody has used a classical orchestra with rock so brilliantly since the Beatles. (Shiva Nallaperumal is a Class XII student of Bala Vidya Mandir (BVM) and vocalist of the Chennai-based psychedelic rock band Blackwire Radio ) [Readers may contribute to MyFive at  . Submissions must have a full address and telephone number. Publication is at the discretion of Weekend Metroplus.]