New life: Surana and Rudra seeking blessings after their marriage.   | Photo Credit:  Staff Reporter Bangalore: Surana’s life came to a halt when she discovered she was HIV positive. The culprit was her husband, who eventually died of AIDS. The man was an autorickshaw driver who lost the fight three years ago. As for Surana (not her real name), she had to look after her two children and her family simply abandoned her. Rudra (not his real name) had a small business in Mumbai before the virus struck him also, turning his life upside down. But he found meaning by working with an NGO. These two lonely hearts, traumatised for years, discovered each other and tied the knot at a simple ceremony at the Amrutangaya Trust . Jagannath, who runs the trust, played cupid in bringing the two together. “I knew the two for the past few years as they were coming to us for counselling. She was not willing to get married, but Rudra managed to persuade her to relent.” Mr. Jagannath has already solemnised 10 such weddings of HIV positive couples. Ms. Surana, who pleaded with the media to avoid her face while taking the picture, said: “I was married 10 years ago and have two daughters. During my second pregnancy, I went for a regular medical check-up where I tested positive because of my husband. He had kept his status a secret from me. I was shocked and lost trust in him. I decided to leave him and came back to my parents’ home. But when I told my father, he distanced himself from me. After that, I decided not to tell anyone about it. I had to endure all sorts of tribulations. I started working as a cook to feed my children and to meet other expenses. Sometime ago, Mr. Jagannath convinced me to get married and he found a match for me. Being HIV positive does not mean we are not entitled to our desires. We also have dreams and aspirations. And we both are committed to be each other’s support till our last breath.” Mr. Rudra was emotionally overcome to speak. He broke down and asked the media to speak to his new bride. Amrutangaya Trust can be contacted on 92423-75776 or 92410-55532.