It is a matter of great joy that  , after winning the Golden Globe award, has secured 10 Oscar nominations. Congratulations to everyone associated with the film, especially A.R. Rahman who has won three Oscar nominations for scoring music. A few have taken offence at the film’s title and its portrayal of Mumbai’s slums. The role of art is to hold a mirror up to reality. If   offends or pleases, it is in the nature of art to do so. ‘Slumdog’ is not a term of derision but a term that explains our failure to transform our slums into decent human habitations. How does it matter whether poverty is portrayed through Indian or foreign films? Is it not a fact that even after 61 years of independence, we are unable to eradicate poverty? The emergence of slums in the metros is the result of lop-sided development. The depiction of poverty in the powerful media may influence the governments to act. How can we forget that many fellow countrymen eke out an existence in cities? Why are we reluctant to accept that India is home to a large number of poor people, malnourished children, AIDS patients, etc? New York city came to know about its slums only after Jacob Riis wrote   (1890). A disease can be cured only after it is diagnosed. Of course, it is a matter of pride for every Indian that Rahman has secured three Oscar nominations. But is his music in   his best performance? Has he not scored music in Indian movies that have got wider acclamation? Why did he not get an Oscar nomination for them? Because they were original Bollywood movies? If Rahman indeed wins the Oscar, it will be an event to remember for India and all Indians. It will not only lift the spirits of the   team but also set a benchmark for the entire film industry. The film’s title should be changed. The word ‘dog’ should be dropped as it hurts the sensitivities of slum dwellers. It is surprising how the title made it past the censors. I would like to register my dissent over the portrayal of India in the movie. While agreeing with the various issues — poverty, crime, etc., — highlighted in the movie, I feel it fails to present a balanced account of the life of a slum dweller in India. Those who want to understand the real life in a Mumbai slum should see the documentary  , a moving personalised tale of communal harmony in Mumbai’s biggest slum, Dharavi, directed by K.P. Jayasankar and Anjali Monteiro. As Asia’s largest slum, with a population of 800,000, Dharavi has often been represented as a breeding ground of filth, vice and poverty. The right of the immigrants who live in the slum is often questioned by vigilante citizens’ groups and right-wing politicians. However, Dharavi’s long history of immigration has created a creative and productive crucible for producing the best and the worst in human nature. It is quite shocking that   highlights only the negative aspects in order to appeal to a selective audience.