SAD FATE It was a year that thrived on quantity over quality    S. SHIVA KUMAR About 118 Kannada films have come and gone in 2008. Our “haage summane” attitude hardly leaves us with any lingering frames It’s down to numbers. It’s depressing when you take stock. “Mungaaru Maley” released in 2007 is indirectly the culprit. When realtor Krishnappa was persuaded to produce the film and it raked in the moolah, anyone who had converted land into cash sought the arc lights. The lure of the lucre and the sheer power of the medium is such. Siddaraju an ambulance chasing lawyer strengthened the trend when his “Duniya” raked it in. The industry rejoiced. Production soared. Money poured in. Quality was the casualty. A record 118 films including one in Lambadi and one in Tulu were released in 2008. An all time high of 165 films were censored. It was quantity over quality. The year started on a promising note with Darshan’s “Gaja” hitting the bull’s eye. Producers stood in a queue and Darshan promptly upped his fee . “Gali Pata” was eagerly awaited because it starred Ganesh and was directed by Yograj Bhat. The songs were a hit and the film about three wayward youngsters was an average success. “Avva” based on Lankesh’s novel was terrible. Vijay was miscast and a naïve Smita was praised for her performance, but suffered the repercussions of doing unnecessary, steamy scenes. Now there are two ways of gauging a hit. The producer sells his film to distributors for a profit and then it depends on whether they recover their money and make a profit. Claims of a hit are always dubious. A lot was expected of “Inthi Ninna Preethiya” directed by Suri, but it failed to deliver. “Bindaas” was an average grosser reinstating the fact that Puneet was the most reliable star in Kannada cinema. “Nanda Nandita” starring Yogesh was a hit and the credit went largely to a song “Jinke Mari Na”. Shivraj Kumar’s films made news but were duds at the box-office. It started with “Satya In Love”, a lavishly mounted but ineptly made film. “Mr. Garagasa” made on shoestring budget made a big profit. “Taj Mahal” was touted as a hit by its makers more than anyone else. So was “Mussanje Mathu”. The list of flops is endless. The stars failed to shine. They were hiding behind clouds of mediocrity which must have hurt their fragile egos. Darshan emerged nearly unscathed with only the terribly made “Navagraha” biting the dust. Ganesh’s films made 100 crore last year. This year “Bombatt” bombed while the producer of “Sangama” says he made a profit of 1.4 crores. The distributors could have another tale to tell. “Aramane” broke even. Upendra is conveniently claiming the credit for the success of “Buddivantha”, but the fact is that even the dialogues were translated verbatim from the original Tamil version. Sudeep had “Mussanje Maathu”, another much hyped, but mediocre film which everyone associated claimed did well. At the fag end of the year came “Mast Maja Madi”, a recycled comedy that desperate audiences lapped up. Vishnuvardhan did not have a single release for the first time in his illustrious career. On the positive side, Jayamala was honoured with a doctorate, not honorary, but for which she slogged. She also holds the top post in the Film Chamber. Saroja Devi won a coveted lifetime achievement award. Umashree won the best actress award at the Osian Cinefan festival for her performance in “Gulabi Talkies”. Tax exemption was granted for remakes which is good news only for the already laidback industry. In fact, most of the films in 2008 that made money were remakes. Ramya had a bad year, but there’s no one in sight to challenge her diva status. Radhika Pandit sparkled in “Moggina Manasu”. Smitha sparkled, but in the wrong film. Haripriya graduated from reading news on TV to the big screen. Pooja Gandhi did eight films. Aindrita Rai was the only bright spot in “Meravanige”. There was no dearth of controversies. Censor chief Chandrashekar was a much harried man but was unflinching in his uprightness. The producer of “Madesha” who’s now cooling his heels in a jail charged with murder threatened him for doing his job. Then an incensed Siddaraju tried strong arm tactics in vain for his “Moggina Manasu”. Rajendra Singh Babu tried to get “Buddivantha” censored and released on his hero’s birthday, but Chandrashekar asked him to join the queue. Chandrashekar earned the respect of the industry, grudgingly though. Ganesh got married covertly and there were rumours flying around that he was coerced by the underworld. On a sombre note, stalwarts like MP Shankar and R.N. Jayagopal passed away. Raj Kishore and Rajshekar an associate of M.S. Ramesh died too. Director K.V. Jayaram and noted distributor K.C. Desai add to the list. The recession sent ripples and the much touted “Lagori” to be directed by Yograj Bhat and starring Puneet has been shelved. “Hage Summane” released at the fag end of the year aptly reflected the casual attitude filmmakers have towards their craft. There is no trace of passion or dedication. A director in another language confessed that it took him five years to know the difference between the normal 50 mm lens and a 75 mm lens in a camera. Here we are still making films, “hage summane”.