When the Ethiraj College for Women inaugurated its Youth Red Cross wing last week, it was a big step for the students. For, the Red Cross offers an option to those who may not be part of the National Service Scheme and the National Cadet Corps. The Tamil Nadu branch of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) has to its credit currently six lakh volunteers in colleges and around 4.89 lakh student volunteers in schools. A total of 548 colleges have Youth Red Cross wings and 5,425 schools, including middle and high schools, have Junior Red Cross wings. The Society’s State secretary Shantha Diaz says the aim is to mould students into good youths through its various programmes. Training is offered to students through the teachers, who are called programme officers or councillors. The officers/councillors are trained by the Indian Red Cross Society at various times, on a specific subject. The training emphasises peer education thus ensuring involvement of the largest number of students. On January 21, the Society began a training programme on creating awareness about child abuse. Five districts were chosen and currently 30 councillors are undergoing training in Chennai. “The districts were chosen based on a survey done in these areas. The training follows a survey that found that some children had tested positive for HIV/AIDS though their parents tested negative. They could be victims of rape or child abuse. The training is to create awareness among trainers about what constitutes abuse,” says Ms. Diaz. The children would be taught how to confide and identify abuse when they see it perpetrated. Other programmes include awareness of blood donation, administering First Aid, and health and sanitation in rural communities. Basically when students step into adulthood, they would be equipped with the Red Cross’s seven principles that teach them to be a good human being, Ms. Diaz says. One of the principles of the Red Cross is to ensure that the person is willing to take up service any time. “There are many people who come to our blood bank [in Chennai] and offer help to just write a certificate. They pass on the message of blood donation, carrying it forward.” A sum of Rs. 10 is collected by the member colleges along with the fees. Of this, Rs. 6 goes to the college and the rest goes to the state branch to help it carry out its various camps and activities. In schools, the government collects Rs. 4. From this academic year, the government will absorb this expense. R. SUJATHA