BRIMMING WITH PEOPLE: A section of the crowd at the exhibition at the fort grounds at Vellore.   | Photo Credit:  Special Correspondent VELLORE: A large number of people from Vellore and surrounding villages thronged the government exhibition on the fort grounds here on Friday and Saturday to enjoy their Pongal holidays. Traffic in front of the entrance on the Officers’ Line was affected during the evening peak hours, with visitors entering and leaving the venue in large numbers. While various government departments such as the Departments of Health and Family Welfare, Social Welfare, School Education, Tourism, Rural Development, Adi Dravidar Welfare, Forest, Agriculture, Cooperation, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy and Information and Public Relations, the Tamil Nadu Women’s Development Corporation (TNWDC) and ‘Avian’ have put up pavilions to highlight the schemes they implement, private organisations and individuals have erected stalls to sell utility and fancy items. The exhibition also featured the usual amusement for children. The government department pavilions contain useful and educative information to those who care to read them. For instance, the pavilion of the Department of Social Welfare informs the visitors not only about the welfare schemes but also about the action taken by the department under the Prevention of Domestic Violence against Women Act, 2005, and the Dowry Prohibition Act. According to a chart, out of the 501 petitions received under the Prevention of Domestic Violence against Women Act in Vellore district till December 31 last, enquiry was conducted in respect of 265 petitions, while a compromise was reached in respect of 34 petitions. A total of 85 petitions were filed in the court and 11 sent to the Legal Services Authority for free legal aid. Court verdicts were obtained in 18 petitions, parties counselled on court orders in 42 cases and interim relief obtained in 11 cases. Thirty-six cases are yet to be examined. Prominently displayed are charts containing information about the Girl Child Protection Scheme. Under it, Rs.22,200 in fixed deposit is offered in the name of the girl for the couples, one of whom has undergone sterilisation after the first girl child (who happens to be the only child) and Rs.15,200 each in the name of the two girls for the couples, one of whom have undergone sterilisation after getting two girls (on the condition that they do not have a son). All 121 children received under the Cradle Baby Scheme in the district have been entrusted with registered organisations. The pavilion put up by the TNWDC displays the handicraft and other products produced by women’s self-help groups. The Self-Help Association for Rural Education and Employment (SHARE), Adukkamparai, has displayed palm-leaf products made by the SHGs under it, while the three-year-old Kalaiarasi SHG, Vellore, has put up artificial jewellery. Different varieties of spices powders made by the Sembaruthi Women’s SHG, the cane products of the Thenmalli SHG Federation, Walajapet, plastic flowers made by the Thenkoodu SHG, Perumalnagar, Keelmonavur village panchayat, leather products from the Kalasam SHG, Idayansathu, Kaniyambadi block, and animal toys from the Roja SHG, Virudhambut, are also on display. The pavilion of the Department of Health and Family Welfare gives information about blood donation, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), and No Scalpel Vasectomy, the Revised National TB Control Programme and the directly observed short treatment course for tuberculosis. The Agriculture Department’s stall has information on the Irrigated Agriculture Modernisation and Water Bodies Restoration and Management scheme, the System of Rice Intensification, the Tamil Nadu Women in Agriculture, Business and Extension scheme and agri business centres. The exhibition, which was inaugurated on January 6, will go on for 45 days. It will be open daily from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m.