THE SMS APPEAL It’s quick, easy and fun    Are we becoming SMS addicts? Admit it. You were SMSed New Year greetings, most of them badly spelt. On your part, you dashed off a Hpy Nu Yr to start your new year networking. How many hours did you spend erasing the messages? Text messaging is a big part of our lives — it’s easy, quick and fun. And quiet — its biggest appeal. “I find it very useful when I want to send someone a quick hello without having to talk,” says Sonia, a student. For the hearing/speech impaired, texting is a boon. SMS is always in the news — good or bad. Dr. Nott, a British doctor volunteering in Congo, used text messages to receive instructions from a colleague to perform a life-saving amputation on a boy. Dr. Nott contacted Professor Meirion Thomas, who had performed it before. “I texted him and he texted back with step-by-step instructions,” he said. “I knew exactly what he meant; we have operated together many times.” South Africa’s Praekelt Foundation has been sending short messages about an AIDS hotline, throughout the country. The 4,000 calls they get per day proves that messages received on a mobile phone are effective. Barack Obama’s campaign history cannot be told without the part played by the humble cell phone text message sent on election day. Campaign managers unleashed a 160-word text to millions of supporters whose phone numbers were collected through contests at election rallies. The choice of Obama’s Vice-President was announced through an SMS! CBI’s Anti-Corruption Bureau launched an SMS crusade in August to pin down corrupt Central Government employees. It has reached more than 80-lakh cell phone users. With 40 text messages and 200 calls a day from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry alone, officials can claim the campaign is a success. No one watches TV shows anymore without a mobile in hand. You have to be texting answers and opinions, right? Don’t know if acting schools teach that, but director Venkat Prabhu chose actors through an SMS contest! You can also check railway ticket status on text. Last year, a Japanese woman published an SMS novel. On an average, we send upwards of three messages a day, says a British study. Ah, texting has its dark side too. Bloated bills are the least of them. A mass communication tool, yes, but SMS-ing can be an ‘addiction’. It seems we don’t know any other way of communication any more. “My high-school kid responds only to SMSes,” says an aghast Radhika. “Even when I’m talking to him, his thumb is busy tapping.” In an already-rude society, texting is another excuse to not socialise and talk face-to-face. Text-gen is young and free, but tied to the mobile. Lewd SMSes are an established method of eve-teasing. There are reports of accidents involving oblivious texters — walkers, bicyclists and motorists. Texters have walked into people, lamp-posts and stationary vehicles. They have tripped on and off footpaths.Is texting a problem or an opportunity? Some claim that ‘textese’, with its bad English, will get a dialect status. Is it the language of the future? “Definitely,” says Peter, technologist with a telecom firm. “High-school and college kids are already on the text-wagon. Its speed, silence and stealth are its big draws.” Ha, but hope it never replaces speech. “In an SMS-ing world, how would you report a calamity? Fire in the house? Burglary? Medical emergency?” asks a mother of teens. “Is “fld dmge, hlp!” followed by a rash of emoticons enough to convey the urgency?” Would you want “I love you”s and “Will you marry me?”s conveyed this way? Or receive a terse “filing 4 divorce” on your mobile? That is the biggest drawback of this mode of instant communication.