Correspondent KORAPUT: ‘It’s only through us that the western world believed in the existence of leprosy on the face of earth,” said Jenny Bracio, the British woman who led a team of 19 cyclists on a mission to spread awareness on different issues on health, said at Koraput on Thursday. Most of the people in western countries had the feeling that diseases like leprosy were a thing of Biblical era and did not exist anymore. But with repeated visits of volunteers to these areas in the south Asian region, the prevalence of the disease could be brought into the limelight, she added. While appreciating the work of LEPRA in this part of the world in controlling the disease to a great extent, she further said that it was for this very reason that she was visiting the region for the tenth time on her bicycle. However for the most of other members in the team it was the first ride in the region. The group comprising young and adult volunteers from UK, hailing from different professions, had begun their journey on their bicycles from Visakhapatnam on January 23 and had reached Koraput today after passing through the ghat regions of Araku in Andhra Pradesh before entering Lamtaput block in Orissa. All along they had interacted with the people mostly tribals, spreading awareness on HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria and leprosy. They had used the art of puppet theatre to attract the tribal audience to listen to their messages and it was one of the most wonderful experiences for the team to get wide appreciation for their effort, she added . While every year the volunteers generated funds in UK for supporting the social cause being initiated by LEPRA to fight the diseases through creating awareness in the region, the degree of commitment among the volunteers for the cause could be ascertained from the fact that all the volunteers were bearing their own expenses including lodging, boarding and the travel to the places from their country, Bharadwaj Mishra, CDMO, Koraput said. He flagged off their cycle rally from the LEPRA office in Koraput from where the cyclists ventured towards Parvatipuram via Narayanapatna and Bandhugaon blocks of Koraput district.