 NEW DELHI: Here are bikers who are myth breakers. Delhi-based bikers group Team 456 have all the macho and daredevilry of bikers, but their signature act is different.   Every road trip Team 456 plans is for a social cause. Last year, the group travelled to Leh-Ladakh with the message to encourage the youth to join the Indian Army. This time around, twenty young men joined hands with National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) for a cause to educate people about HIV-AIDS.   On Saturday, the group flagged off their trip from Delhi to travel through remote villages of Rajasthan, to educate people about HIV-AIDS and its prevention.   The six-day expedition will cover 2000km in Rajasthan and pass through Jaipur, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Bikaner before it reaches Delhi on January 29.   Team 456 was formed in 2004 with four members namely Parmesh, Vinod, Sreejith and Ajith with an objective to promote adventure tourism on bikes. At present, it has more than 100 members.   Said Parmesh Kumar, one of the founding members, of the group. "It's unfair to tag all bikers as rowdy and careless on the road. It was to break this myth that we decided to start a group called Team 456 in 2004. We came up with this name, after the flat number 456 where we would decide and plan all the road trips. The group includes software engineers, consultants, marketing managers, businessmen and designers.''   Those part of the group feel that riding a bike brings with it a certain amount of responsibility and trying stunts while zipping on city roads and highways is suicidal.   But the participants in the HIV-AIDS campaign are excited about the Rajasthan trip. Naveen Puri, working with private company says "In biking, one needs to show a certain amount of maturity on roads. Driving a motor bike is not all about zipping. But what I'm most really looking forward to the interaction with villagers and educating them on HIV aids.''   For others, the trip is all about recharging their batteries. "This is my time off from work. Thanks to the long weekend, I clubbed two casual leaves at work and got my self a break, which I really needed. There are also plans to go to Jaisalmer which shares the border with Pakistan and hoist the National flag on January 26 to celebrate Republic Day.'' said Mohit Singh, who works with a private bank. 