 CHANDIGARH: Crippled by disease and penury, 171 children who are either infected by HIV or have lost a parent to the deadly disease have nobody who could look after their day-to-day survival. Residing in this prosperous city, these kids don't know where the next meal would come from or who would pay their medical bills.   Coming to their aid, an NGO, Human Rights Law Network (Chandigarh chapter) is on the verge of filing a public interest litigation in the court. Strongly advocating the rights for these children, students of law at Panjab University and Amritsar-based Guru Nanak Dev University have volunteered to be a part of the campaign and work with the NGO in this direction.   Veena Sharma, under whose supervision students would outline the PIL, said, "These children need special care as their nutritional and medical needs are different. However, they are met with hurdles everywhere, be it at hospitals or schools."   The NGO is working along with Chandigarh network of People Living With HIV and AIDS. "According to data provided by the network, of the total 171 kids, 113 have been infected with the deadly virus," added Sharma.   According to UNAIDS 2006 report, approximately 7,00,000 children contracted HIV, with 95% of them getting the infection from their mothers.   Presently, neither National AIDS Control Society nor UT administration provide any special monetary help to these youngsters. "We had sent an estimate to the administration for providing pension to widows and children who have lost husband/family members to HIV. However, we are yet to receive complete information about these people. Hence, the process is stuck," said Kavita Chavan, the officiating director of UT State Aids Control Society.   "Taking a cue from HP government, we suggested UT officials to start special monthly scheme entailing a grant of Rs 700 to children and Rs 1,000 to widows. But it has been hanging fire for past two years," said Pooja Thakur, president of People Living with HIV and AIDS, Chandigarh network.   Stressing that these kids need help, Sharma said, "There is a nine-year-old HIV positive patient who has no means to getting admitted to PGI as his teenaged elder brother - a rickshaw puller is his only family." 