 PANAJI: Gay activists and NGOs working with HIV-infected persons have hailed Thursday's Delhi high court verdict on homosexuality as progressive.   "Finally, the rights of homosexuals have been recognized by the high court. All these years we have been fighting for this to happen. Now homosexuals will have more freedom and police harassment will be reduced. They can live freely, with equal rights and if they want, then they can be open about their relationships. But they shouldn't violate the rules of the society," said Mahesh Govekar from Zindagi-Goa.   Govekar said that this will play a major role in decreasing the risk of HIV amongst homosexuals. "HIV risk will be reduced because there will be increased faithful partners as many will feel their is no need to hide their relations," added Mahesh.   "It is a good opportunity for all gays to come out in the open. We will celebrate the occasion. It will reduce the increasing rate of HIV and most of them will take care of themselves and follow safer practices," said Deepak Parab of the Humsaath Trust Goa.   According to activists working with HIV-infected people, there are around 800 homosexuals in Goa of whom 150 are married men. Most of the men are in the age group of 18 to 25. Male homosexuals have a greater risk of contacting HIV/AIDS.   In a historic judgment, the Delhi High Court on Thursday decriminalized homosexuality by reading down section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.   The Section 377 of the IPC as far as it criminalizes gay sex among consenting adults is a violation of fundamental rights, said the high court. However, Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code which criminalizes homosexuality, will continue for non-consensual and non-vaginal sex.   "So far homosexuality was not accepted and many male homosexuals feared being stigmatized and isolated by society. It is good news for HIV positive people. A new door has opened for those who had gone underground with their sexual preferences for fear of stigma. Now the NGOs will have easy access to them," said Jaffar Inamdar of Positive Lives Foundation. 