 VARANASI: I was in a terrible shock when I came to know seven years ago that I was HIV positive. And, at that time the facility of anti-retroviral therapy (ART) was not available in Varanasi. But, today, like many other people living with HIV, I am also trying to lead a purposeful life. Says Manoj Kumar Singh, who is associated with the Banaras Network for Positive People with HIV/AIDS Society (BNP+).   Like Manoj, there are around 1,000 persons living with HIV in the district. "They are members of the network and around 500 of them take active part in our activities organised from time to time," he told TOI on Monday. The BNP+ is a network of people living with HIV and it holds programmes like counselling, awareness campaign and eliminating social stigma. Manoj, who was infected with HIV in 2002, is the president of the organisation that is linked with the UP Network. "As per rough estimates, over 10,000 persons are infected with HIV in the eastern region of UP, out of them 6,500 are associated with the district level network," said Sunil Seth, the secretary of BNP+.   "The HIV/AIDS-related stigma is expressed in several ways, like social ostracism, rejection and avoidance of people with AIDS (PWAs)," said Manoj, adding situation was changing slowly with people coming forward with a broader and scientific outlook. "People associated with the network not only try to bring about a positive change in the lives of HIV infected persons, but also educate them about available treatment facilities," he informed.   It is a good news that the second line treatment for those HIV patients who have become resistant to the standard first line ART has also been started at the ART Centre of the Institute of Medical Science, Banaras Hindu University (BHU).   "Our ART Centre has been upgraded to the Centre of Excellence for HIV care, the only of its kind in Uttar Pradesh," informed Dr Jaya, a staffer. The second line therapy was started at BHU in December 2008. According to her, presently 16 HIV patients are on the second line treatment of ART. It may be mentioned here that there are seven ART centres in the state including CSMMU Lucknow, IMS-BHU Varanasi, LLRM Medical College Meerut, Motilal Nehru Medical College Allahabad, Baba Raghav Das Medical College Gorakhpur, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Aligarh and SN Medical College Agra. According to UPSACS reports, there were 7,063 HIV patients, including 6,710 adults and 353 children, on ART at the seven centres in the state till December last. 