 CHANDIGARH: The government's definition of poverty is something that does not work for AIDS patients and HIV positive individuals. Only those families that have income less than Rs 432.09 per capita per month, can avail of below poverty line (BPL) facilities.   However, AIDS patients have to spend Rs 1,500 per month on medication and also need extra supplements to counter the side effects of antiretroviral treatment (ART), which is almost as tough on the body as chemotherapy.   So while they may be earning above the BPL limit, the effective income of many AIDS patients tends to be quite low.   Sources say there are around 100 families with HIV positive members or AIDS patients in the city that are suffering due to the low income limit, which was set 10 years ago. Only three such families here have been recognized under the BPL category.   Supreme Court had recently directed National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) to work with state governments regarding a scheme for including these patients under the BPL category's Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY), so they can get nutritional support.   NACO guidelines say HIV patients taking ART need supplements apart from proper nutrition.  Pooja Thakur, president of the NGO — Chandigarh Network of Positive People — said, "In a city like ours, which has very high per capita income, the BPL limit means almost no AIDS patient can be included in the scheme."   United Nations sanctions funds amounting to crores of rupees to states and UTs for HIV positive individuals.  As part of that effort, civic bodies get NGOs to conduct surveys to recognize patients and provide them with facilities.   Chandigarh municipal corporation's joint commissioner TPS Phoolka said, "We are helpless with the BPL limit as only Centre can change it."   Project director of Urban Poverty Alleviation and Livelihood Cell, Vivek Trivedi, while talking about the surveys, said, "There should be extensive field work to recognize these patients and provide them benefits of the government schemes."   Firoz Khan of Human Rights Law Network, New Delhi, said, "We are working to enable patients get facilities that a BPL individual gets. AIDS affected can also get handicapped due to severe infection. So they need more help." 