 NEW DELHI: Patients suffering from HIV are at an increased risk from the deadly H1N1 flu virus.   According to World Health Organisation, infection with the flu virus may have a more serious impact on people with immuno-deficiency diseases compared to otherwise healthy individuals.   What's more worrying is if the two viruses -- HIV and H1N1 -- mix in the environment, much like what's happened with HIV and tuberculosis.   Even people with heart disease, asthma and diabetes may face an increased risk of serious influenza-related symptoms.   The WHO advisory should come as a serious warning for India which is home to an estimated 2.5 million HIV infected people -- third only to South Africa and Nigeria in the total number of cases.   Guidelines issued by CDC Atlanta recently say, "It is known that adults and adolescents with HIV infection, especially persons with low CD4 cell counts, are at higher risk for viral and bacterial lower respiratory tract infections and for recurrent pneumonias."   "Because adults and adolescents infected with HIV experience more severe complications of seasonal influenza, it is reasonable to assume that they are also at higher risk for H1N1 influenza complications."   Reacting to a question on what a H1N1 outbreak's impact could be on HIV patients, WHO's assistant director-general Dr Keiji Fukuda told TOI from Geneva, "The world is made up of groups of people who have different medical conditions. Chronic heart or lung conditions make people more vulnerable to influenza viruses in general."   "We also now know that people who have HIV infections can be susceptible to many infections and with influenza viruses HIV infected populations are one of the groups of people who can be somewhat more heavily impacted than people who are healthy. We need to know who are the different groups of people who are going to be disproportionately affected if a pandemic breaks out," Dr Fukuda said.   WHO says regular seasonal flu kills between 250,000 and 500,000 such people a year.   The apparent spread of the H1N1 influenza virus has many people living with HIV concerned about their health and safety in India.   But a health ministry official said while there are reasons to be cautious, there's still no reason to panic.   At present, the H1N1 is sensitive to two known drugs, Relenza and Tamiflu, and there is little evidence to suggest that these drugs cannot be safely combined with anti-retrovirals (ARVs) used to treat HIV. The flu medications work much like ARVs -- they prevent the influenza virus from reproducing in the body.   According to WHO and CDC, people at high risk of serious influenza-related complications, including people living with HIV/AIDS, can take Relenza or Tamiflu as post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) to prevent the flu. However, PEP is only recommended for HIV-positive people who have a known exposure to the virus if a household member is diagnosed with H1N1.   Officials said HIV-infected persons should be considered as a high risk and a priority population for preventive and therapeutic strategies against H1N1. WHO recommends that patients at higher risk for complications of influenza should be among those prioritized for antiviral treatment with oseltamivir or zanamivir which shortens illness duration and severity in seasonal influenza. The WHO advises that it is best if people infected with the flu strain start taking the antivirals within 48 hours of the onset of symptoms.   Because of the unique vulnerability of people living with HIV (PLWH), it is recommended that they consult the HIV clinical care provider during this heightened alert as a preventative action. If signs and symptoms of flu do occur, the PLWH should contact the HIV clinical care provider immediately, WHO says.     