 CHENNAI: Two years ago, a study by University of Miami confirmed that selenium (Se), a rare element with an atomic number of 34, can stimulate the body's immunity and decrease the viral load in people with HIV/AIDS. Today, scientists have pinned their hopes on an African study using a combination of vitamins, zinc, selenium and folic acid to change the face of HIV/ AIDS treatment.   The five-year double-blind study, where a number of patients are given a combination of these drugs, comes to an end this year. "Lack of selenium in the patient's body increased deaths due to complications of HIV by 20 times. And when there was an increase in selenium, the risk level fell. Now, if the African study is successful, it would mean that we have won the war. It may decrease or even change the dosage of the expensive antiretrovirals," said UK-based Dr Jag H Khalsa, chief, medical consequences branch, National Institute of Drug Abuse told a conference on molecular medicine at the Indian Institute of Technology.   Over nine months, the University of Miami team gave 91 HIV patients a daily capsule containing 200 micrograms of high-selenium yeast, and another 83 patients a daily placebo capsule. The two groups had similar selenium levels at the beginning of the study, but after nine months, levels were lower in the group taking the placebo. Those with higher selenium levels in their blood were more likely to have a lower HIV viral load, and a higher number of CD4 cells that play a key role in fighting infection.   "If little selenium alone can make a difference, we hope a combination of other elements will make it better," Dr Khalsa said. In fact, doctors in the UK doing a study to test the safety of marijuana (cannabis) among people with HIV/AIDS found that smoking it for a short term increased the patient's weight. "It did not increase the viral load, but the patients' immunity levels improved and they gained weight because of increased appetite. The study did find any complications, but we do not recommend it for general use," he said.         