 From gloom to hope and now on streets for their rights, the journey of HIV+ widows, who are now showing courage to demand their rights, has been long and motivational but justice still eludes. While government has made available free treatment, the need is for a support mechanism to help such people get livelihood and quick justice. And this will be possible only when people and government will join hands. A report by Ashish Tripathi   Lucknow: For someone like Anuradha Singh who watched her son and husband die due to AIDS, and she herself gradually moving towards death, every single moment of the life would have been nerve-breaking. But this 35-year-old HIV+ widow refuses to surrender. Thrown out of her own house by her in-laws, she has not only overcome depression but has also launched a fight to reclaim everything from sasural wallahs she created together with her husband.   Scores of HIV+ widows who acquired the infection from their husbands are leading a traumatised life in oblivion. After the death of their husbands, they were disowned by in-laws and denied property rights. Many were left on the streets as destitute. A few got support of their parents while some were helped by the People Living With HIV (PLHIV), the organisation of HIV+ people. But only few like Anuradha have been courageous enough to defy the stigma and come out in the open to wage a fight for their rights.   Twenty such HIV+ widows assembled in the city on Tuesday to take part in an event organised by the Lucknow network of PLHIV with the twin objective -- to motivate those who are still suffering quietly to fight for their rights and to make their voices heard to policy makers for drafting intervention programmes for speedy justice. One by one, these women narrated horrifying yet inspiring tales of how they suffered due to discrimination and stigma but did not surrender.   Anuradha got married to Ram Naresh in 2001 and was blessed with a son within a year. But two months after birth, her son fell sick and died. "My in-laws sent me to my parents saying it will help in overcoming my grief. But when I came back after a few days, I was told that Ram had also fallen sick and was in Varanasi for treatment. My in-laws refused to give more details," she recalled. Later, with police's help she found that her in-laws had locked the ailing Ram in a room.   "I was shocked to see his condition. Only then I discovered that he was HIV+ and that my son had died of AIDS. I was also tested positive," she said. After Ram's death in 2005, Anuradha was thrown out by in-laws who claimed that Ram had made his nephew the legal heir. But what made her suspicious was that Ram was highly educated, whereas the Will had his thumb impression. "Hence, I filed a case in the court," said Aunradha for whom the fight is not about money but dignity.   Most of such widows belong to low or lower middle class. After being thrown out, the basic question before them is survival. Things are even more difficult for those having children. Sumitra from Jaunpur is fighting with her in-laws for property rights for last ten years. "I was married in 1995 and widowed in 1999. I have two children but no money," she rued. Sumitra and her two sons are getting treatment with the help of PLHIV, but still she wants her rightful claim.   Sheena from Banda got infected by her husband who worked in Mumbai. Her husband died six months back. She has two children, one eight-year-old and other ten-year-old. Ironically, after being thrown out by her in-laws, she was also not supported by her parents. Today she lives with her sister and brother-in-law. She works for PLHIV. Luckily, her sons are unaffected. "I may not live long but I want the right of my husband's property for my children," she said with determination.   Had it not been the support of neighbours, Roma would have committed suicide after being discarded by her in-laws. But today the widow works for PLHIV and for the past 12 years has been fighting for her rights. "Initially, no lawyer was ready to take my case but now things have changed with awareness," she said. However, she felt, judiciary needs to be more sensitised and fast track courts should be instituted so that such cases pending since long can be expedited for justice.   Raghvendra, an activist associated with the Lucknow network of PLHIV, said that after death of their husbands, most women lose their homes, inheritance and source of livelihood. "If not supported by their families or anybody else, insecurity forces many such women to adopt survival strategies that increase chances of contracting," he said. Hence, he said, it becomes even more important for the government to make a mechanism to support such women.   Both infected women and the activists feel that government is doing enough to provide medical treatment and spreading awareness. But their main concern is lack of support for creating sources of livelihood for HIV+ people. Also, there is hardly any arrangement for the education and support of HIV+ children. All this, advocate and a human right activist Prem Prakash Shukla said, can be made possible only through a joint effort by the society and government. 