 VADODARA: If you find garba revellers at all major venues in the city playing with a red ribbon tied on their arms, don't be surprised. A city-based education group has decided to spread awareness about AIDS during the nine nights of Navratri this year. The J C Group is planning to reach out to more than 4 lakh people in the city and provide information about the disease.   The group, in the process, will also break the record of spreading AIDS awareness to maximum persons within a short span of time. At present, an NGO holds the record of reaching out to 2.97 lakh children in seven districts of Tamil Nadu. "We want to reach out to maximum number of youth as they need to be sensitised first about AIDS. Navratri is a good occasion to contact the young generation as lakhs turn up to r either play or watch garbas," said chairperson of J C Group Sunil Dalwadi.   "Also, Navratri is considered to be a sacred festival as it celebrates triumph of good over evil. It is a good occasion to spread awareness of such a disease that has claimed lakhs of lives across the world. We will also break the record for spreading AIDS awareness to maximum people," Dalwadi added.   About 250 volunteers, all students, will spread out at over 36 garba venues in the city and contact the revellers and audience. Every group of volunteers will visit at least three grounds every day and tie red ribbon on the arms of the revellers. The event has been named 'Creating Endless Hopes for Hopeless Ends' and it will target youth over 15 years of age. The chief guests at all venues will also be asked to release red balloons during intervals.   "The Limca Book of Records has already accepted our application for the record. We will send all the documents to them soon after Navratri. The Tamil Nadu NGO had spread awareness among children below the age of 12, which is not the actual target group," said project in-charge and international programme manager of J C Group Shweta Upadyaya.   The volunteers will also distribute cards containing details about AIDS and ways to prevent it and banners will also be kept at several locations in the venue.      