 VARANASI: Perhaps majority of the prisoners of the Central Jail here did not know that their high risk behaviour had exposed them to HIV/AIDS. But, the beginning of integrated counselling and test centre (ICTC) at this jail is enabling them to become aware about their ailments and get proper treatment as well as preventive measures.   The initiative of UP State AIDS Control Society resulted in constitution of the ICTC at the Central Jail in the beginning of 2009. And, it resulted in detection of two new cases of HIV positive inside the jail. The detection of HIV positive cases inside a jail was not surprising. The increasing number of AIDS cases among the prisoners of the jails in the state that came to light in recent years compelled the agencies like UPSACO to take such initiatives. According to senior jail superintendent SC Srivastava, the UPSACO selected five jails of the state to begin the ICTC and the Central Jail was the first to get this centre.   By March-end about 500 prisoners and jail staff turned up at the ICTC of the Central Jail. But the test report of 300 prisoners whose blood samples were taken from January 1 to February 28 for the tests like Comb AIDS and Bidot resulted in detection two fresh cases of HIV positive, admitted Srivastava. With this detection the number of HIV positive cases in this jail has reached three. Three prisoners at the overcrowded Central Jail had been detected AIDS victims by the mid of 2008. After their cell count was done through CD4 test at the centre of National AIDS Control Organisation at Banaras Hindu University, their treatment had been started from Anti-Retro Viral Therapy centre. Two of these prisoners were released after completion of the period of their imprisonment.   After these developments the ICTC came into existence at this overcrowded jail that accommodates over 1,800 prisoners against its capacity of only 840. Counsellor of this ICTC, Awadhesh said that when he introduced himself the prisoners started turning up at his centre voluntarily. Of total prisoners who turned up to this centre, three-fourth had come voluntarily while rest were referred from the jail hospital. He said that during counselling it came to light that the two inmates with HIV positive were trucker and vendor and exposed to the disease due to their high-risk behaviour. Their treatment had also been started from ART BHU and they are enjoying normal life at the jail under the monitoring of the ICTC of the jail.   Srivastava said that all the prisoners were aware about AIDS and ways of its transmission, hence their behaviour had not changed with the prisoners who had been exposed to this disease. But, as a precaution the jail authorities have cautioned the inmates not to indulge in homosexuality as it could also prove a cause of the transmission of the disease, though Srivastava claimed that no cases of homosexuality had come to light inside the jail in past two years. The ICTC of the jail has targeted to cover all the prisoners of the jail in coming three-four months while jail staff are also being encouraged to come forward for voluntary test.     