 PALANPUR: Four HIV positive persons turned a new leaf to their lives on Sunday when they found life partners and promised to be with each other in happiness and in sorrow.   Widows Smita Patel, 29, (name changed on request) and Vidya Suthar, 33, (both lost their husbands to the deadly virus), got married again on Sunday. Smita tied the knot with Kuldip Shah, 30, (name changed on request) who has beeing fighting the virus since six years while Vidya took her vows with Bhavesh, 33, who was diagnosed two years ago.   Two philantrhopists, Dr Surendra Gupta and Dr Naresh Soni, both of who are part of a local NGO, made this event possible. It was their efforts in convincing the families of the couples for the wedding that led to their blessing the unions.   Talking to TOI Dr Gupta said, "It was not an easy job to get these couples together amid opposition of their near and dear ones. In fact, the greater obstacle was caste. Many from their communities disapproved of inter-caste marriages and feared social ostracism on these grounds. Others argued that there is no need to get married when life expectancy level is so slim. Some rejected the proposal saying "It was nothing more than waste of time"."   Although families were convinced and came in to bless their children, many from society preferred to stay away. "Many who we thought would remain present and support our efforts, tried to avoid the function when we went to invite them. How long will this meaningless misconceptions continue to haunt our society," lamented Dr Gupta. Dr Soni said, "Even government officers turned down our invitations to lend support to the wedding."   Vidya got infected from her husband Sumit who had contracted the disease during an illicit relation in Ajmer, where he had gone for a job. When Smita's husband, a diamond broker in Surat died two years ago, she came to realise she had a similar story. Bhavesh was infected while from the blood donated to him after a road accident. Kuldip too was the victim of blood transfusion. 