 CHANDIGARH: Contrary to the general perception that awareness levels regarding AIDS/HIV are especially low among the rural uneducated lot, a six-year long survey among mothers of students undertaking medical courses shows that urban women also lack basic knowledge on the disease.   In a recent study conducted by GMCH-32, 12% of respondents said that HIV/AIDS is a curable disease, while 52% did not know that AIDS leads to other diseases on account of lack of immunity. The study also came up with a set of recommendations, which stated that women across the social spectrum should be targeted by awareness campaigns chalked out under the National AIDS Control Programme, phase II and III.   Under the findings, around 83% knew that HIV/AIDS occurs mainly through sexual intercourse, while factors like blood transfusion were known to only 75% of the respondents. Besides, 74.6% believed that the best way to curb the disease is prevention. Nearly 76% stated prevention of sexual transmission is possible by adopting use of condom, while 73% thought that use of disposable syringes and needles can also help in keeping the disease at bay. The study, which was conceptualized and conducted by department of community medicine over a period of six years, attempts to highlight the lack of awareness regarding modes of transmission and methods of prevention of HIV/AIDS. Besides, it also aims at exploring the attitude of urban women towards prevention and control.   The study gains importance because of the fact that majority of population in the city belongs to middle and upper class strata. Mothers of 260 medical undergraduates were questioned for the purpose. It was revealed that out of the 260 respondents, 193 (74.2%) were in age group of 45-54 years, while 50 (19.2%) were below 45 years. As many as 72.3% belonged to middle class group, while 72 (27%) were from upper strata. It was also gathered that 83.5% had heard of HIV/AIDS. However, only 66% knew that the disease is caused by HIV virus.   