 MUMBAI: In April 1994, just as the world was getting to understand the extent of the HIV\AIDS epidemic, the Maharashtra government set up a committee to help patients suffering from the deadly disease. Now, 15 years later, the AIDS Research & Control Centre (Arcon), which was set up with much fanfare as the country's first HIV\AIDS body, is likely to shut shop on a rather muted note.   As the five-year grant to Arcon by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria ends on April 30, the committee will cease to exist, say government officials. "Arcon is no longer relevant as we now have the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) and its state-level branches across the country,'' said Arcon's director Dr Abhay Chaudhary. He added that while Arcon only provided medicines to patients at a subsidised cost, NACO's Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) centres gave them free of cost. "I am unable to find takers for this scheme,'' he said.   Since its inception, the centre has counselled over 10,000 patients. Till about a month ago, over 3,000 patients depended on it for free blood tests. Of these, 350 are enrolled for ART drugs available at a highly subsidised cost.   This group of patients would be affected the most by Arcon's closure. "I get my blood tests in the least possible time here, while at NACO-run ART centres, patients have to spend an entire day,'' said Ashok T (name changed), who has been visiting Arcon since 2000. Nagpada-resident Vijay Solanki (name changed) insists that the ambience at Arcon is what draws him to the centre. "At the ART centre in JJ Hospital, people are dismissive and curt. Here, people speak to us with sensitivity,'' he said.   Dr Chaudhary concedes that patients found Arcon more convenient as it had more counsellors. "Now, that Arcon is closing, the government has asked me to submit a report in 15 days on what measures can be taken to help patients,'' he said.   Meanwhile, a group of patients who depend on Arcon will meet on March 26 to discuss the issue.   