 ALLAHABAD: At least six women in rural pockets of the district have been tested HIV positive mainly due to unabated use of infected syringes by quacks.   Officials of the health department in association with Allahabad Network for People Living with HIV\Aids (ANP+) are running from pillar to post to apprise villagers about harmful affects of infected syringes. However, it is not an easy task as rural folks especially women are not ready to listen to their pleas.   The six women, who have been tested HIV positive, were allegedly administered drugs with infected syringes by quacks. To keep an effective check on such cases, the health officials are campaigning in rural blocks, apprising villagers about harmful affects of infected syringes.   Talking to TOI, Vishal Chhari, joint secretary of Allahabad Network for People living with HIV\Aids said that the ANP+ has conducted counselling of a number of women who got infected with HIV due to infected syringes. He said that villagers usually do not know anything about infected syringes and fall prey to deadly diseases due to lack of medical awareness.   Chhari further said that most of the villagers do not visit primary health centres or community health centres located few kms from their villages. Instead, they prefer quacks for reasons best known to them, he said.   Dr VK Srivastava, district programme officer, Aids control, said that the health officials are trying their best to create medical awareness among the villagers. Women in rural pockets used to force doctors to treat them with the same syringe which was used by their husbands. Some of these men, working in metropolitan cities, unknowingly pass the virus to their wives, he said.   The situation has turned alarming with villagers shying away from visiting PHCs and CHC and approaching quacks for their treatment. The health department with the help of the district police has launched a drive against quacks.   ANP+ office-bearers said that strict rules are needed to put an effective curb on quacks who do not hesitate in treating all patients with a syringe. Besides, steps are being taken to clear myths among villagers who think that a common syringe can treat all family members.   Apart from unprotected sexual relationship, use of infected syringes is prime reason behind increasing HIV threat in rural parts. Insiders told TOI that apart from over 950 persons registered with ANP+, over 3,000 have been registered with ART centres reaching the number of HIV affected persons to more than 4,000. 