 MUMBAI: A huge number of an estimated 13,000 HIV-positive students across the state are facing a piquant situation, as there is a demand for either their expulsion or isolation. The first such instance was reported from Latur, where students boycotted classes as HIV +ve students were being allowed to enter the school. A similar boycott took place at a zilla parishad school in Amravati district.   "It's a fact that a section of students were boycotting the classes to protest against the admission of HIV +ve students but now we have convinced the students that there is absolutely no possibility of contracting the disease,'' Sunil Deshmukh, guardian minister of Amravati said.   A month ago, students of Hasegaon village in Latur district had boycotted the school for well over a month to protest against the admission of HIV positive students. In fact, the gram panchayat had passed a resolution, saying, no student from the village will attend the school till the HIV +ve students were expelled.   The row was resolved following the intervention of a section of NGOs and senior government officials. Students and parents were told that there was no threat of infection to the students, if they sit with HIV +ve children. However, an identical situation was witnessed in Amravati, the home town of president Pratibha Patil.   It was found that following the admission of 10 HIV +ve students in a zilla parishad school, the villagers not only conducted a strong protest, but also boycotted the school for a week. Normalcy was restored only after Deshmukh's intervention, a doctor by profession. "Initially, there was a protest, but we have explained the situation to the parents. We told them that merely by sharing seats in the classroom, students will not become HIV positive,'' Deshmukh told TOI on Wednesday.   Not only Maharashtra, but major states across the country were also facing an identical situation, said a senior health official. Even as a section of NGOs have taken up the cause of HIV +ve students, there was no response from the district administration.   "In Maharashtra, we have nearly 13,000 HIV positive students. Post the Latur and Amravati school episodes, HIV +ve students appear to be uneasy. We are witnessing a new trend. We will have to motivate both HIV positive, non-HIV +ve students and tell them there is no need for panic. We will have to give them more information about the condition,'' the official said.   According to him, it was not possible to either isolate the HIV positive students or set up a special school for them. "If we set up a special school for them, it will be disastrous. We will never advise taking such a step,'' he said. 