 NEW DELHI: Nearly 350 HIV+ people came together in the city to promote better access to treatment and care for people living with this life-threatening infection on Wednesday. Experts say with the population of HIV+ people gradually increasing in India, there is a need for increasing the number of anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centres to provide better treatment.   At the national consultation on `Promoting Access to Care and Treatment' organized by Public Foundation of India (PFI) and Global Fund, the latter committed 500 million dollars for the next six years to continue care, support and treatment programmes being provided by National AIDS Control Organization (NACO).   At present, there are 227 ART centres in the country and NACO plans to scale it up to 375. "There is a need to make treatment accessible for HIV+ people, especially those in remote areas. We also plan to upgrade the district level network of people living with HIV and help them to first accept the disease and then guide them overcome the social stigma attached with the disease and help them lead a better life,'' said Dr Mary Verghese, project director, Global Fund programme, PFI.   There are 200 district level networks of positive people in nine states, providing care and support services. There is a need for community care centres for HIV+ people where they can be counselled about the disease, Verghese said. "The focus is on improving survival and quality of life by combining prevention with treatment, care and support,'' said Dr Verghese.   "We are now assured of assistance up to 2016 and can scale up the programme to reach out to an additional four lakh people by increasing the number of ART centres and other services," said Dr Damodar Bachani, deputy director general of NACO.   There is a move to decentralize ART centres and bring the facility to Public Health Centre (PHC) level and NCO along with its partner organizations are working towards this. "At present, ART facilities are limited to medical colleges and select few district hospitals only. But there is a plan to open linked ART centres in PHCs, said Verghese.   