 JAIPUR: Nearly two years ago, a group of 15 female sex workers from Alwar formed a community-based organization to fight against the spread of HIV. Unlike other initiatives for the upliftment of sex workers, this group limited its approach to promotion of safe sex. With the support of the state AIDS Control Society, the group now has 150 registered members and is in touch with around 600 such women from nearby villages.   "We have just worked to promote the ideology of No condom, no sex', and nearly all the sex workers approached by us are following safe sex practice now. It is better to teach them practical ways than to preach some unrealistic methods," says a member of the group.   The Rajasthan State AIDS Control Society (RSACS) is now working to formulate more community based organisations to bring awareness among these sections. So far, only two such organisations have been formed in the state. But the Aids Control Society intends to associate 50% of the high-risk population with such groups by 2010.   "Members of these groups are themselves sex workers, and are thus able to convey the message more effectively. They also understand the real issues being faced by such people and are able to initiate behavioral changes," said Dr R N D Purohit, project director, RSACS.   However a change in social and administrative attitude towards these sections is also required. The issue of social marginalization is faced by the gay population as well who too are at a high risk of HIV. Formation of community based organisations is also expected to provide them empowerment against social exploitation. "The first success was seen in Kolkata following which the chances of AIDS among the sex workers were brought down. Inspired by this success, it was decided that a similar model should be made," said state epidemologist of RSACS, Dr Shyam Sharma.   According to government estimates, there were around 9,000 female sex workers in the state two years ago. However, those associated with them place the number much higher. 