 PUNE: Public sector pharmaceutical company Hindustan Antibiotics Limited (HAL) will start production of new Anti-Retroviral (ARV) drugs from September. T K Ranganathan, managing director, HAL, revealed this while speaking to reporters during the visit of Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar and Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers Ram Vilas Paswan to the company office in Pimpri on Saturday.   Ranganathan said, "The HAL was manufacturing some ARV medicines two years ago, which have now become outdated. As a result, we are planning to introduce newer forms of ARV drugs which are used in treatment of HIV/AIDS. The production will start in September or November."   The HAL was the largest producer of penicillin in India, but the production has since stopped. Speaking about the closure of the penicillin plant, he said, "We have been trying to start production of penicillin. However, China has been dumping huge quantities of penicillin in the market. The market price of penicillin is eight dollars per billion unit while the manufacturing cost is 10 dollars per billion unit. Hence, it's not a viable manufacturing option."   Ranganathan added that the HAL is trying to manufacture erythromycin using the fermentation facility for which talks are on. He refuted the reports that HAL has started outsourcing its work in a big way. "We have 90 per cent in-house production and only 10 per cent work is outsourced. We have been outsourcing just Rs 15 crore worth of work out of the total turnover of Rs 120 crore," Ranganthan said.   Earlier, Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar and Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers Ram Vilas Paswan, inaugurated the cephalosporin plant. Later, they addressed the workers.   Paswan announced that the implementation of Justice Mohan Commission recommendations will begin from January 17. He said, "The arrears will be given to the employees in instalments and the management and Union representatives should send a proposal to us for approval." He further announced that each employee of HAL will be paid Rs 1,000 in the new year.   Pawar pointed that the workers have not agitated for increasing their wages for the past 10 years.   C K Mathew, chairman, board of directors, HAL, additional secretary and financial advisor, ministry of chemical and fertilisers, said, "The company will generate Rs 11.04 crore from the cephalosporin plant when it becomes fully operational. The phase I of the plant was inaugurated today and in a year the second phase will also start."   Ashok Kumar, secretary, ministry of chemical and fertilisers, said from February 1, the first batch of medicines from the new plant will begin to roll out at much lower prices than those in the market.   MLA Vilas Lande, MLC Laxman Jagtap, Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Aparna Doke and others were present at the meeting. 