 PANAJI: An NGO has approached the judicial magistrate first class court at Vasco seeking transfer of a case closed by police in 2006, regarding the alleged rape of a minor girl, to the children's court after the victim recently tested positive for HIV.  In its appeal, the NGO, Stop Child Abuse Now (SCAN) - India, has stated that "if this case is not transferred to the children's court, then the whole intent and principals of the children's court shall be diminished, thereby causing violation to the rights of the victim".   The minor girl was seven, when she was raped by her neighbour in 2005. A complaint was filed one-and-a-half-months later on July 18, 2005. The Vasco police registered a case under Sections 342, 376 and 506(ii) of IPC and Section 8 of the Goa Children's Act. The matter was before the the JMFC court and the police closed the case as A-final in 2006, without filing a chargesheet. However, now, at the age of 11, the minor girl has tested positive for HIV.   TOI had reported the minor's tale last month. Soon afterwards, the victim's family approached SCAN for assistance in the rape case. Subsequently, SCAN has sought transfer of the case, pointing out that under Section 34 of Goa Children's Act, the JMFC court is barred from hearing cases concerning rape of minors. The appellant has also pointed out that Section 34 excludes all courts, other than the Goa children's court, from hearing matters pertaining to offences against children.   As per Section 34 of Goa Children's Act 2003, "no other court, civil or criminal, shall have jurisdiction to decide or deal with any offence or any question or any dispute or any liability which by or under this Act is to be decided by the children's court, except by appeal to the high court or Supreme Court".   The NGO has further pointed out in its appeal that Section 30(1) states that "subject to the provision of this Act, the children's court shall have jurisdiction to try all offences against children whether such offence is specified under this Act or not".   Interestingly, even in the past a similar criminal case filed in 2005 in Vasco JMFC court was transferred to the children's court after similar intervention. 