 KOLKATA: Lack of awareness and social inhibitions have led to a spurt in AIDS cases among homosexuals in the state, marking them a "high-risk category" along with sex workers.   In the run-up to World AIDS Day on December 1, social activists and health workers said the gay community would be the focus of fresh initiatives to draw them into the mainstream.   Female sex workers (FSW), injecting drug users (IDU) and men having sex with men (MSM) are the three high-risk AIDS categories. West Bengal State AIDS Prevention & Control Society (WBSAPCS) said that in 2005, about 0.54% population of men having sex with men (MSM) suffered from HIV. In 2006, the statistics for this category had jumped to 6.12%. Rate of HIV prevalence in the IDU category has increased from 4.64% to 7.41%.   Officials say that the actual number of HIV positive patients in the gay community could be much higher because most gays are extremely apprehensive about declaring their sexual orientation. Keeping themselves in the closet out of fears of social ostracization has made them inaccessible. Due to such inhibitions, they become all the more vulnerable.   In contrast, enthusiastic, well-planned initiatives to spread awareness among sex workers have shown success. According to recent reports, there has been a slight decline in the prevalence rate in the FSW category from 6.8% to 6.6%. Due to narrow social outlook, awareness drives are yet to meet the same success in the gay community.   "Unlike the FSWs and IDUs, there has been difficulty in bringing the MSM community to the mainstream. Social stigma is a major hurdle which prevents them from taking timely medical assistance. Though more gays are now coming out in the open, access to them has been only recent, unlike other high risk category groups. This is the main reason behind the increasing AIDS cases in this community," said Dr Pallab Bhattacharya of WBSAPCS.   Gay activists, however, hold society and policy makers responsible. Amendment of Section 377, that struck down the law criminalizing consensual sex between two homosexuals, is yet to ease the social isolation faced by gays. Instead of looking at MSMs as a community that is spreading AIDS, there is a need to change attitudes and mind sets, they said.   "Social prejudices must be removed. The community first needs social space and security. We are working with WBSAPCS for few years now, and feel that the approach has to be above the medicalized model. We have to follow strict protocol and cannot work on our own terms. Why treat the community as a population that is spreading AIDS?" said Anindya Hajra, secretary MANAS Bangla, an NGO for gay rights.  