 NEW DELHI: Prejudice against homosexuality is seriously affecting India's fight against the deadly HIV but Thursday's judgment by the Delhi High Court promises to be a boon for the country's National AIDS Control Organisation.   Experts said oppressive laws such as Section 377 had driven men who have sex with men (MSM) underground, making it much harder to reach them with HIV prevention, treatment and care services.   India, therefore, was seeing an alarming increase in HIV infection among MSMs. NACO estimates that the prevalence of infection within this community is 7.41%, thanks to multi-partner and commercial sexual practices, meaning that seven out of every 100 MSMs are presently infected with HIV — the highest among all high risk groups.   Estimates say that India is home to 2.35 million MSMs of which 100,000 are at high risk of contracting HIV. Already, 15% of this community is infected as access to information and condoms are limited.   Speaking to TOI, Dr Charles Gilks from UNAIDS said, "Section 377 of the IPC, that made homosexuality a criminal offence, was an impediment to our working effectively with the MSM community. Fear of harassment made them stay underground, thereby making it difficult for us to map the size of this community."   Dr Gilks added, "It will take a long time for the public attitude towards MSMs to change. But Thursday's judgment will make it easier for us to reach out to the MSM community and include them in targeted interventions that will protect them against HIV by making sex between males safer."   Interventions include behavioural change education, services to treat sexually transmitted infections, providing condom and lubricants, linking them with integrated counselling and testing centres and providing them with life saving anti-retroviral drugs if infected.   Under India's National AIDS Control Programme II (NACP II), till a year back, only 30 TIs were dealing with the MSM community.   At present, the number of such MSM-specific interventions stands at 184, covering 70% of the population. Each of the TIs are being allocated Rs 12-18 lakh per year for implementation.   "Around 30 more TIs are being planned for MSMs. Because such interventions are based on self-identification, the judgment will help more MSMs come out in the open," a NACO official said.   Former health minister A Ramadoss, who was the first to favour an amendment to Section 377, told TOI Section 377 was an archaic law and must go. "I welcome the judgment and it's a way forward. Because it was criminal to be a homosexual till now, these people never came out in the open and infection rates were very high. Now health workers can fearlessly reach out to the MSM community to protect them against HIV," Ramadoss said.   According to government estimates, 5% of all sexually active males in India have sex with other men.   A report from American Foundation for AIDS Research recently said MSMs were 19 times more likely to be infected with HIV than the general population, yet were ignored in many countries.   Criminalisation of sexual activity between males was a major driver of the epidemic in many countries, the report concluded. Seven of 10 countries with the highest reported HIV rates among gay and bisexual men criminalise homosexuality.   Globally, 86 countries criminalise sexual activity between males. In seven countries, sexual activity between males is punishable by death. 