 KANPUR: The misconception of working women being more prone to HIV in comparison to housewives was recently proved wrong. Reports by the district health societies revealed that around 45 women in the city were detected as HIV positive during April to October, out of which 42 were housewives. Figures indicated that 19 (out of the total) housewives detected as HIV positive belonged to the age group 21-30 followed by 16 women in the age group 31-40. Fifteen infected women, however, were known to be from slum areas.   Attributing reasons for the cases where married women were contracting HIV from their husband, Dheerendra Kumar Dubey, coordinator of National AIDS Control Society (NACO) said: ``Women are more vulnerable to AIDS for biological reasons and are four times more susceptible to sexual transmitted infection than their male counterparts.'' He further informed that women are increasingly being infected due to low social and economic status and their dependence on male counterparts that limit their control over their own lives.   It is to be mentioned here that around 19 females in the age group 31-40 belonged to the rural areas. Dr SK Singh, medical officer, District Tuberculosis Hospital, informed HIV infected women belonging to 31-40 age group are more likely to be part of the labour force, adding, these women get the virus because their husbands are the clients of sex workers. He further informed that an interconnecting link between the general population and the vulnerable class is established by the bridge population which majorily includes all those who are the clients of sex workers. Another reason, according to Singh is the increase in the number of drug users. He said: "Everybody could be at a risk unless adequate measures are not taken. We need to change our mindset in dealing AIDS.''   Reports, however, revealed that a total of 121 cases (approx) have been detected as HIV positive during the period, April to October, out of which 107 have been referred to Anti Retro Viral Therapy (ART) Centre, Lucknow for treatment. Dubey said: ``The immediate affect of a HIV infected patient is visible economically and the direct impact is on the income of the household of People Living With HIV/AIDS (PLWHA).'' The increased expenditure on the treatment pulls them to back out, adding that poverty does not let them avail proper medication. Taking into consideration, HIV patients who need immediate treatment are taken to ART Centre Lucknow free of cost.   To subside the problem, Singh said: ``information is provided regarding the use of condoms and check-up at the district hospital is recommended in case of suspicion.'' The health authorities along with NACO are widening HIV/AIDS campaign to go beyond the vulnerable groups. Dr Ashok Mishra, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) said: "Although the situation in the city with AIDS patients is less in comparison to other districts, but it is still alarming.''   To put a check on the rising cases the district health authorities are trying to create awareness amongst masses through novel ways like that of maintaining a register at the petrol pumps located at national highways so as to get the entry of those drivers taking condoms from petrol pumps. Apart, condom vending machines are installed at various locations by NACO. Street plays and campaigns are being performed in areas of HIV positive cases.      Vulnerable population; Bridge Population; General Population   * Sex workers; Clients of sex workers; Youth   * Trafficked women; Mobile population; Women   * Drug Users; Population in conflict; Men  