 PANAJI: HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, road accidents, breast cancer and depression have been listed among the top ten killers of Goans by 2050, as per a study conducted by the Goa Institute of Management (GIM) student Ashish Kumar.   The study results were presented at a recent conference on 'Frugal Innovation in Healthcare' being held at the GIM campus in Ribandar. The conference was jointly organised by GIM and Xandev foundation.   Kumar, in his presentation, said that HIV/AIDS results show that there is uniformity in the number of cases in both the districts and that STD contributes to HIV cases. "This might be due to increased contact of the local population with non-resident/non-Goan/tourist population. On an average 600 persons die each year due to communicable diseases (except STDs)."   The presentation revealed that alcoholism could also be one of the top ten killers by 2050. It states that according to a study by Goa branch of Voluntary Health Association of India, of the 800 plus persons examined 15% were exposed to harmful abuse of alcohol. Over 21% of industrial workers are exposed to hazardous alcohol consumption.   Kumar further said that as per the revised National TB Control Programme estimates there are 160 cases of TB per 100,000 population in Goa. 'The programme, however, has failed to meet its target of detecting 70% of new cases. The incidence of undetected TB is particularly high in areas like Marcaim in Ponda taluka, where poor communities like the Gauddes are badly affected.'   He said that in case of cancer, Goa estimates put rates of incidence of breast cancer at 35 per 1,00,000 population which is more than four times the national average of eight per 1,00,000, the study said.   The presentation further said that at 4,69,106 vehicles, Goa has one of the highest vehicle/person average. The fatality rate from traffic accidents in Goa is estimated to be 170 per million persons, as against the Indian average of 80.   Kumar has also said that a pilot project launched in 2006 showed that 10-20% of patients across PHC's suffer from stress and depression. 'Studies by Sangath reveal that one out of five adults attending the primary health centre and one out of four mothers attending the NGOs centre suffer from alcohol abuse, which is the single most important cause of depression in Goa'. Cardiovascular diseases and anemia are also said to be high among the Goan population as per the study. 