 VARANASI: Manorma (name changed), a 10-year-old girl, does not know that she has inherited HIV from her mother Sudama Devi (name changed), a housewife and mother of eight children.   "I have lived my life, but what about my young daughter, who is bound to depend on drugs for her life," worries Sudama while talking to TOI on Friday. The only thing for his satisfaction is that her other children and husband are not HIV positive. Unlike many others, she is also lucky that her husband, an employee of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), is very supportive and takes full care of her and the young child to lead a dignified life.   But, the main concern of this mother is about the marriage of her daughter when she grows up. "Meri sabse bari chinta yehi hai ki meri beti ki shadi kaise ho payegi," wonders Sudama, who knows very well that HIV positive persons face discrimination in their everyday life. This stigma and discrimination against the HIV positive children denies their access to education, health and other services. "No one in the locality and even in my family, except my husband, knows that we are HIV positive," she confides. When Manorma, a Class IV student of a local school in Sunderpur locality, asks about the medicine she has to take everyday, she is told that it is for her good health. Recalling the fateful days, Sudama said she was infested with HIV after a blood transfusion 10 years ago and her daughter also inherited the virus. It was a catastrophe for her, but she did not give up hope and decided to fight it. Both mother and daughter take regular medicine.   But, Prema Devi (35), a resident of Konia locality, is not as lucky as Sudama. After her husband's death, she and her children were separated by her in-laws. She has to do petty jobs like those of a daily wager to earn her livelihood. "My husband Vijay Shankar, who worked as a weaver in Mumbai, died of AIDS six years ago," she told TOI, adding that the disease was also transmitted to her. But, good thing is that her children, a son and two daughters, are not infected with HIV. Like others, she is also taking regular medicine from the anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centre of BHU.   Children like Asmita Jaiwalal and Ashish also do not know that their mothers are HIV positive. "Issues of the children of HIV positive persons should be addressed properly because they, knowingly or unknowingly, have to face hardships," said Augustine Veliath, the communication specialist on UNICEF. Veliath was in the city on Friday to take part in an interactive programme for such children and their mothers.   According to a UNICEF report, women and children are increasingly becoming vulnerable to HIV/AIDS. About 38 per cent of the infected persons in India are women. This alarming trend is being observed closely as more HIV positive mothers will unknowingly pass on the virus to their children. The country has an estimated 220,000 children infected by HIV/AIDS. It is estimated that 55,000 to 60,000 children are born every year to mothers who are HIV positive. There is effective treatment available, but this is not reaching all women and children who need it, informs Veliath.   There is life even after the infection of HIV/AIDS, the only need is the greater involvement of people living with HIV/AIDS, he points out and adds communication and advocacy on HIV/AIDS is essential to break the silence and contain its spread. To achieve this, UNICEF works to promote HIV/AIDS awareness among young people and empower them to take action to fight against HIV/AIDS and influence the policy-makers and key stakeholders. Primary prevention among young people is the greatest hope to defeat the virus. The 'Unite For Children Unite Against AIDS' campaign calls upon everyone to come together for the care and protection of affected (directly or indirectly) children, adolescents and young people.   