 MUMBAI: Sporting jeans and sneakers, a 19-year-old US student has been silently making the rounds of Mumbai's public hospitals over the past fortnight. An undergraduate student at Brown University, Rhode Island, Gauri Tilak is in the city on a mission. She along with her bunch of five friends back home want to lend a helping hand to the city's HIV/AIDS programme.   It's the eagerness to make a difference that has made the Ivy League student travel across the globe to visit `desi' hospitals. "We all wanted to do something to address a public health issue in a developing country,'' said Tilak whose father hailed from Mumbai. Not wanting to be unrealistically ambitious and head to a place where they would need to start with building the entire infrastructure, the group zeroed in on the city after networking with HIV/AIDS officials from the Mumbai District AIDS Control Society (MDACS).   "Our aim is to identify gaps in the existing programmes and help fill them,''said Tilak as she went around the medicine ward at state-run JJ Hospital on Saturday, interacting with persons admitted with HIV-related complications and brainstorming with HIV-in charge Dr Alka Deshpande. She has also been in and out of civic-run Sion Hospital's paediatric AIDS department. "We realised nothing is being done about the nutritional needs and education of HIV-positive persons, particularly women and children; factors which could play an important role in improving their quality of life,'' said Tilak who is contemplating mobilising the resources to provide supplementary nutrition to HIV-positive persons.   Meanwhile, her friends back at the university are trying to get the alumni network to raise funds for the cause. "We will be back in a few months to streamline our work,'' she said.   While theirs is an informal initiative, Brown University has also entered into a formal collaboration with the MDACS. "We have entered into a research collaboration with them, wherein three of our HIV/AIDS specialists will be trained at the university,'' said Dr Harish Pathak, additional director of MDACS. HIV specialist from Brown, Dr Kenneth Meyers is also slotted to visit Mumbai in September.   madhavi.rajadhyaksha@timesgroup.com 