 CHENNAI: For children whose lives had been forever altered by HIV-AIDS, it was a day of appreciating kindness, remembering sacrifices and just saying thanks. From pre-schoolers to adolescents, children of all ages took the opportunity to pin a badge of gratitude on their loved ones at a function organised by Community Health Education Society (CHES) here on Sunday.   "Children from the community and those from the CHES home are part of the event. We wanted to celebrate all the loving relationships that have seen them through tough times. We offer them different types of support including educational, medical, economic and psychological help. Some of the children are from HIV-affected families, i.e., they may have lost one or both their parents to the condition. They may be living with relatives who are helping bring them up. Those from the CHES home are orphans, a few of whom are HIV-infected. However, we do not tell them about their status," said CHES president and project director P Manorama,.   Social workers said the children's lives were hard enough without having to shoulder the additional burden of knowing they were HIV-infected. "We never tell them but sometimes they find out for themselves when they discover the use of the medicines they are taking. Though they are scared initially, they forget when they play and joke with their friends," said a social worker.   While most children at the event pinned badges on either one of their parents, several chose their siblings and close relatives as they had lost their parents to the condition. "We live near Red Hills with our grandmother. Our aunt, who works as a teacher for kindergarten classes, supports the family. CHES helps us pay for our education. Right now, we are studying hard because we are in classes X and XII. Since the practicals are over, we can concentrate on theory now," said a participant.   The programme was conceived by social workers but it was the children who executed it. With television artiste Santhoshi and her husband as guests of honour, the excitement of the children was barely contained. Many were taking the mike for the first time. "I remember our visit to the CHES home when we got married. We were so warmly welcomed by the children. It was wonderful to have them share our happiness," said Santhoshi, to a round of applause. Having included children from the home in an episode of the popular dance show Jodi No. 1, the television artiste was a firm favourite amongst the audience.   In fact, some of the participants were among the group that put up a performance for her at Sunday's event.   "We have participated in a lot of dance competitions before, both at school and at the home. All of us love to sing. In fact, we always have informal games of song and dance among ourselves," said a child from the CHES home as his friends cheered him on.   Heady with excitement after completing their dance successfully, all the children were looking forward to attending a donor's wedding afterward. It was only as the van pulled away that this reporter was told that some of the happiest members of the group were, in fact, infected with HIV.   timeschennai@timesgroup.com 