 LUCKNOW: 33-year-old Janahavi Goswami (name NOT changed on request) has become the first woman to be elected as president of the Indian Network for people living with HIV+ and AIDS (INP+). She was elected to the post at the annual meeting of the INP+, a body comprising HIV+ people working for the people carrying the virus and suffering from AIDS. The meeting also decided that it would intensify its work in northern states, particularly UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana, with main focus on welfare of HIV+ women and children.   "The status of women in northern states is already backward and those having HIV+ are facing the worse due to stigma and myths associated with it," said Janahavi, who acquired the infection in 1993 and is living with the virus for the past 17 years. "I have no problem in revealing my status. In fact, I am leading a normal life with my family without any hassles," she told TOI over telephone. She is a working woman and supports her family. "HIV infection is like diabetes, which if managed properly can remain under control," she said, narrating how with awareness the fear of stigma has gone and society in general does not discriminate with HIV+ in north-east but the problem is severe in north India.   Total 98 members of the INP+ general body voted in the elections to elect a 13-member executive body. While Janahavi has been elected president, another woman Renuka from Andhra Pradesh has been elected as treasurer. KK Abraham, who was holding the post of president till date, was elected general secretary and K Sandil Kumar got elected as vice-president. INP+ members from UP who attended the meeting said that Janahavi's election as president would send the right message across the society as situation of HIV+ women and children is the most vulnerable today. The theme of INP+ this year is also to work for the rights of women and children with HIV+ status or those suffering from AIDS.   Abraham, who is widely respected in the community for his commitment for the cause, said that leadership of a woman would help in highlighting the problem faced by HIV+ women in a better way. He said that governments in northern states need to expand free and better diagnostic services and treatment facilities. Amitabh Awasthi, president, Lucknow INP+, who also attended the meeting, said that in UP many HIV+ widows, who get infection from their husbands, are thrown out by their in-laws and do not get their due share in their husband's property. Many do not reveal their status out of fear of stigma, which aggravate suffering and often ends up spreading the infection. 