  : It was midnight when Bhanu (name changed), complaining of labour pain, was rushed to Vani Vilas Hospital. The HIV positive patient was denied Nevirapine, the drug that prevents virus transmission from mother to child. Also, Nevirapine syrup that has to be given to the newborn within 72 hours, was delayed. Predictably, the baby died even before being tested for HIV.   In another incident, 25-year-old Meena (name changed), also in labour, was taken to K C General Hospital. There too, there was no HIV kit.   The drugs have to be provided free to HIV patients as per the National AIDS Control Organization's guidelines. However, the patients' relatives in these two cases had to inform the medical superintendent before getting it.   Lack of counsellors at night and the shortage of drugs means HIV-positive expectant mothers have to face many problems during delivery. Admitting shortage of the crucial drugs, K C General Hospital medical superintendent Vishwaradhya said: "There has been a delay in supply of HIV kits and drugs from Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS) and Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society. Due to increase in number of AIDS cases at the hospital, doctors too are at a risk of contracting the disease. However, in emergencies, we buy the drugs from the user fund."   "Usually, we ensure pregnant HIV mothers receive Nevirapine and the kit before delivery. Counsellors had told Meena a few days before delivery date that the stock had expired at the hospital," said Malathi from Arunodhaya Network of Positive People.   What is shocking is that the state's biggest maternity hospital, Vani Vilas, has only one counsellor, who is a man. "Because of this, a majority of the pregnant women feel uncomfortable. Group counselling is usually conducted here," said Krishnamurthy from Arunodhaya. Even to get the HIV test report, they have to pay at some of Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTC), he added.   According to KSAPS officials, there are 561 ICTCs in the state, both at the hospital and PHC level. If there is a shortage of drugs, the hospital has to procure them using its fund, or mobilize them from other centres. They should not prescribe it to the patient. 