 PANAJI: After the demolition of the Baina red light area in 2004, only one in five female sex workers in the state have had access to the free condoms provided by the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO). This number should have been close to 80% as envisaged under the national AIDS control programme. Further, with sex workers in Goa now widely dispersed, only 38.7 % have had exposure to HIV prevention methods while 30.7 % have no knowledge of the disease.   Moreover, only 21% female sex workers (FSWs) have been able to avail of free condoms from the government or NGO. While 15.8% don't use condoms, another 29.7% were forced to indulge in sexual activity sans any protection. In a majority of cases, however, customers tend to bring condoms to the FSW, reveals a study titled, "The burden and determinants of HIV and sexually transmitted infections in a population based sample of female sex workers in Goa".   Conducted by two NGOs, namely Sangath and Positive People, it is published in the journal, Sexually Transmitted Infections' in 2009.   NACO classifies FSWs in the high risk group and, to ensure an overall reduction in the epidemic, their targeted interventions are aimed to effect a behavioural change through awareness. "Youth and illiteracy, indebtedness and support of dependents, migrant status and exposure to violence, limited access to HIV prevention and sexually transmitted infections (STI) treatment services, contribute to the vulnerability of sex workers," said Maryam Shahmanesh, who is part of the study.   The Goa State AIDS Control Society (GSACS) project director Pradeep Padwal said that the mapping of areas where the "needy" are placed is in progress. "We have to identify where the needy are or, conversely, they will have to approach places where we are based. We are trying our best to reach the needy," he said.   However, this is easier said than done. "Sex workers have spread across the state. NGOs don't have access to them and they don't want to avail of government facilities for the fear of being identified or stigmatized," said Arun Pandey of Arz, an NGO which was used to work with trafficked victims at Baina.   The study comprises a sample of 326 female sex workers in the state. It reveals that infections were common with a 25.7% prevalence of HIV and 22.5% prevalence of bacterial STIs in sex workers. A majority of the FSWs studied are in the age group of 21 and 25. While most were from Karnataka, there were about 54 from Goa and 37 from Andhra Pradesh selected for the study.   Sex workers are widely dispersed; practising in 557 different lodges, establishments and other areas. While 57.8 % resort to bar, lodge or brothel-based sex work, there are about 28% home-based sex workers and 22.7% street-based sex workers in Goa after the demolition of the Baina red light area. About 20.6 %, FSWs started young, at the age of 16, the study added.      