 CHENNAI: While scores of people have died in Gujarat due to hepatitis in over a week, a city-based blood bank has found that the regular tests for HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C or HIV prescribed by the government may not be foolproof.   "We did both the ELISA test prescribed by the government and the advanced Nucleic Acid Testing (NAT) test with every donation. Three samples of donor blood tested negative for the mandatory tests but tested positive for Hepatitis B after NAT. Two of these three donations also tested positive for Anti HBc (total), indicating past exposure to Hepatitis B virus. We have prevented a potential transfusion associated with Hepatitis B in as many as nine patients, as each unit of blood is separated into three components," Jeevan Blood Bank chairman Dr P Srinivsan said on Thursday.   The core antibody to Hepatitis B (Anti HBc Total) is positive in 10 - 12% of population suggesting they were "exposed" to the virus at some point in their life. But they remain negative for HBsAg as they have no symptoms or signs. "Hence by the current testing practices followed in the blood banks they remain undetected. These people transmit the virus to the recipient, when blood donated by them is transfused and the recipient shows symptoms. Unfortunately, we don't have a look back programme in this country for data on number of patients who come back with infections," he said.   "Ensuring blood safety and prevention of transfusion-associated infections is the responsibility of all stake holders of health care delivery system. When an effective technology is available for prevention of a disease which could harm a life, it is the responsibility of blood banks to upgrade themselves. In the absence of NAT, the only option that was available to blood banks to prevent transfusion associated Hepatitis B was to do Anti HBc (total) test on all blood donations and reject the blood units that were positive," said the bank's medical director Saranya Narayan.   According to chief pathologist Dr Vinod Kumar Panicker, who heads blood bank at the Sri Ramachandra University, the window period in case of hepatitis B is reduced to 34.5 days against more than 40 days in the conventional test and to less than a week in cases of HIV and hepatitis C. "We are doing NAT tests for the last one week. Techincally we know its a safer method," he said.   Rejection of Anti-HBc (total) positive blood accounts for a loss of around 10% of blood donations and a financial loss of approximately Rs 12, lakh every year to a blood bank collecting 10,000 blood donations. In addition, over 1000 blood donors are asked not to donate blood again.   Urging the authorities for a revision in safety norms, Dr Srinivasan said: "Safety is ignored citing an additional cost of approximately Rs 600 per blood component. It translates to an additional expense of Rs 1,800 for a common surgical procedure which is often a one-time event in someone's life. In any case, the amount is cheaper than a cost of bottled water a health conscious person spends for a year." 