 MUMBAI: In a first of its kind, a voluntary organisation working in the field of HIV/AIDS has been charged with cheating, misappropriation of funds and harassment of HIV+ persons by a government body.   The joint chief of the Mumbai District AIDS Control Society (MDACS), Harish Pathak, lodged a complaint with the Goregaon (W) police, levelling these charges against the NGO, Sanmitra Trust, on Tuesday after he received written complaints from 11 current and former employees, earlier in the day.   Brushing aside all allegations, NGO officials, however, said the civic body had been trying to evict them from the hospital premises and the police complaint was merely a new pressure tactic.   The MDACS move is significant as it is the first time that a government body has actually initiated action against an NGO working in the HIV/AIDS sector after the World Bank raised a stink about corruption rampant in NGOs working in the field in late 2007. (see box).   "We received complaints from employees and initiated action as there seems to be some truth in the allegations,'' said Dr Pathak, joint director of MDACS. For instance, the NGO had been claiming funds from the MDACS for staffers, but the money was not disbursed among employees, he added.   The staffers, many of whom are persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHAs), have also complained that their HIV-positive status was revealed to visitors coming to their office without their consent and alleged that the trust has been paying them salary less than that sanctioned by the MDACS. The trust receives around Rs 22 lakh from the MDACS for its various projects annually. TOI has a copy of the complaint letters submitted by the employees.   An outreach worker said the NGO earlier paid them Rs 2,500 per month as opposed to the MDACS-sanctioned Rs 2,750. When the sum was raised to Rs 5,000, they were given only Rs 4,000. "The NGO took a cut in the salary without us knowing about it. They also made us sign on blank vouchers,'' said an employee, adding that their complaints to trustees had fallen on deaf ears.   Prof Prabha Desai, chairman of Sanmitra Trust, known for its work since 1999, in her turn, said the trust "had high accounting standards'' and was ready to face any inquiry. "They have tried to evict us from the hospital premises and wanted total closure of our projects. Since we refused to leave, the MDACS has been torturing us. This is a pressure tactic,'' she said, adding that the allegations were "all cooked up'' and that the MDACS had roped in HIV-positive persons to make false complaints. "Fourteen of our employees lost their jobs after MDACS closed the projects. Those who have lost their jobs are making allegations,'' she said. Denying the claims of misappropriation of funds, she claimed the MDACS had asked them to give travel allowances without vouchers and had been harassing her, after she objected. "The MDACS hasn't issued any showcause notice. Why did they go to the police when they have the authority to audit our accounts?'' 