    The 'I Pledge' campaign of Smita Thackeray-helmed Mukti Foundation took off with actor John Abraham as the face of the campaign.   "When it comes to eradicating HIV/AIDS, it is the attitude that makes the difference," says Smita Thackeray. Considering that more than 2.5 million AIDS cases in India will be moving to more alarming levels by 2010, according to CIA's National Intelligence Council Report, Smita's move seems to be very timely. The anti-AIDS crusader has also roped in John Abraham for the campaign. John was recently voted the sexiest Asian man of the year by a leading British Asian weekly.   Says Smita Thackeray, "HIV can be prevented, but it is our attitude that sees it becoming an alarming monster. I have taken a pledge to eradicate HIV and wanted a youth icon to take the same pledge and encourage our youth to do the same."   Says John, "When I realised the essence of Smitaji's campaign, I immediately wanted to be a part of it. As a public figure, I want to make the difference. I felt that it was time for us to act, and to pledge for an AIDS-free life. I want the youth to stand up and pledge to practice safe sex, to be faithful to our partners, get ourselves tested for HIV, and not to discriminate a HIV-affected patient, spread awareness, use new syringes and not visit commercial sex workers. I have pledged and I want others to follow the same. We will make that difference with our commitment."   Adds Smita Thackeray, "The idea is that we should all pledge together and show our commitment towards the cause of eradicating AIDS, because together we can, together we are, together we will fight AIDS from our country. John is the perfect choice as the face of this movement."   'I Pledge', the public interactive campaign, aims to take a pledge from the public where each individual makes a promise that they would contribute in their own small way to eradicate HIV.   On-ground activities are being organised at public places like malls, multiplexes and other youth hangouts from Nov 29-Dec 1.      