 BHUBANESWAR: Experts in ayurveda claim to have come up with medicines which can make life more comfortable for patients suffering from HIV/AIDS, cancer and several physical deformities.   The Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha (CCRAS), the apex body that oversees research in ayurvedic medicine, has developed the drugs. The council has also begun clinical trials in different hospitals across the country.   Director general of CCRSA, G S Lavekar said, "The traditional system in association with modern technology can do wonders in medical science. The age-old practice has been adopted by developing countries and our medicines are in much demand abroad. Diseases such as HIV/AIDS, cancer and mental illness may not be totally cured but the drugs can definitely improve the standard of life of the patients."   Lavekar said they have the credit of obtaining as many as 22 patents including one international patent right on drugs. "After vigorous clinical trials, seven drugs developed by the council are in the market while seven others are on the pipeline. These include one for HIV/AIDS, cancer, psoriasis and disabled persons," he added.   For cancer treatment, the council has developed QUOL2C drug, which aims to increase the quality of life for those undergoing chemo and radio therapy. Clinical trial for the drug is conducted in four major hospitals including St John Medical College and Hospital in Bangalore, AIIMS, New Delhi and Tata Institute of Cancer, Mumbai.   Similarly QOL2A, a medicine for HIV infected and AIDS patients, has been launched for multi-centric clinical trials. "We developed this medicine in association with Indian Council of Medical Research's two frontal organizations National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) and National Institute of Virology," he said.   Ayush-Manas, a medicine for mentally disabled people is being tested in Ram Monohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi and NIMHANS, Bangalore. The council has also developed Triple 7 oil for cure of psoriasis, a chronic skin disease, Ayush-64 for treatment of malaria, Balgutti-a tonic for children.   "These drugs are in high demand in the international market particularly in countries like Mauritius and West Asia," Lavekar said. The council is also working on different metabolic diseases such as hyper-tension, stress, anxiety, fatigue and others," he added.   The council recently signed an MoU with Utkal University for further research in Ayurveda and Siddha under which several multi-disciplinary projects will be taken up.     