 BHUBANESWAR: Orissa has a sizeable population of over 20,000 people infected by HIV/AIDS and their number seems to be increasing by the day. While no political party has mentioned this issue in their manifesto, a group of women living with HIV, orphans, sex workers, sexual minority groups and Injecting Drug Users (IDU) got together on Monday to release a charter of demands that they want addressed by the government that comes to power.   "It is ironical. Everyone finds it fashionable to talk about HIV and AIDS. We have studied the manifestoes of almost all the parties, but none have any mention of us," said Namita Nanda, president of Shradha, an organization for women living with HIV. "People with HIV/AIDS suffer social discrimination and are ostracized. Women and children are the worst sufferers as they punished without any fault of theirs. It is the duty of the government to provide them their right to live and live with dignity."   Niraj Mishra of Solidarity Forums said, "The disease should be made a political and election issue. Political will and commitment are crucial in fighting the killer disease. Politicians could help reduce the stigma and discrimination against those afflicted by it. Also high on our agenda is pressurising the political parties to pass the HIV AIDS Bill introduced in the Parliament last year."   They demanded increase in the pension from Rs 200 to 500 and to undertake comprehensive policy to provide social security mechanism for the PLHIV. They demanded availability of ATR (Anti-Retroviral Therapy) in all the districts and to make available second line ART in Orissa. Free legal services should also be provided by the government to give these people their property rights.   Politicians from different parties attended the conclave and promised to fulfil their demands if they come to power. However, no one had anything to say when they were asked about how they would go about making the lives of these people better.   "We know we have not made any impact on politicians. In fact, they have forgotten us. We want to remind them of our presence and want them to work for us when the next government is formed. We want to live with pride and want the parties to support us in this endeavour," Nanda maintained. 