 KOLKATA: On December 1 last year, the West Bengal State AIDS Prevention and Control Society had announced that costly AIDS medicines would be distributed free from all the five state-run hospitals in the city.   However, even after around one and half months, most hospitals have not set up the infrastructure required to store the medicines. The few that have, have merely forwarded demands for the medicine supply.   There are mainly two kinds of medicines for AIDS or HIV treatment. One kind of medicine costs less, while the other is a high-cost medicine that can only be stored in retro-viral units. These costly medicines are used to increase the immunity of AIDS or HIV patients and the price starts from Rs 200 per tablet.   NACO has assured the state government that they will supply these medicines to all the state-run hospitals. But the work is yet to begin because the hospitals apparently seem in no hurry to act.   "Only a retro-viral unit can store such medicines which cannot be sold from any ordinary medical store. All the government-run hospitals have been instructed to set up a retro-viral unit inside their complexes," said a society official.   Society joint director D N Goswami said even those hospitals that have the infrastructure in place are yet to send their demands.   "Though we had plans to introduce the system from December 2, most hospital authorities are yet to set up the required infrastructure. Only the school of tropical medicine has this unit in the city. On the other hand, what is startling is that even those that have the required infrastructure, like the Burdwan and North Bengal Medical Colleges, haven't yet sent us a list of the medicines they require," said Goswami.   RG Kar Hospital superintendent Krisnangshu Roy said they are in process of setting up the retro-viral unit so that the free medicines could be distributed.   "We needed time to set up the infrastructure first. The logistics of setting up the unit is on and it will be set up within the next 15-days," Roy said.   Calcutta Medical College and Hospital superintendent Anup Roy admitted they are yet to set up the retro-viral unit. All hospital authorities concerned will hold a meeting with the society on Wednesday to sort out the issue.  