 VARANASI: Anil Singh (name changed) is a native of Varanasi district and has been HIV positive for the past three years. He has married HIV positive woman from Maharajganj. She had also faced family and social boycott after she was identified with the deadly virus, almost at the same time as Singh.   Now, they are not only happily married but are also leading a normal life. In addition, they have devoted themselves to the cause of others with HIV/AIDS in the region. They have also arranged successful court marriages of over six HIV positive couples, enough to suggest positive development for people who usually prefer to wait in isolation for a slow death.   Is the region witnessing change in the mindset of people towards those infected with HIV virus? While the positive developments suggest a shift in the mindset that is often associated with social stigma and discrimination at various stages of HIV positive cases, it is also proving to be a refreshing change for social and voluntary organisations (NGOs) working for HIV positive cases in the region.   "There is still miles to go before the change is noticed clearly in the society. But, a beginning has been already made," said Gopal Gaur, vice-president of Banaras Network for Positive People with HIV/AIDS Society, an NGO working for HIV positive people in the region. "Not only has the rate of social boycott and ill treatment meted to such patients gone down, a number of family members have also started accepting the victims," he added while talking to TOI on the eve of World AIDS Day on Monday.   It may be mentioned here that World AIDS Day is celebrated every year on December 1 to raise awareness on precautionary and safety measures to control the spread of HIV positive cases. As per recent reports of World Health Organisation (WHO), there are over 50 million people that are living with HIV/AIDS in the world.   However, as per reports of the NGO, there are around 800 people with HIV/AIDS in the district who are getting health care and support services through Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART) centres. According to Sunil Seth, secretary of the centre, out of these victims, nearly 50 per cent are widows and around 30 children, including girls, have also tested positive for HIV.   But, marking a significant change in the mindset, not only have the young children started studying in primary schools, a number of widows have also found their rightful place in the family, though it required intensified and integrated efforts from the activists.   "Nearly 50 per cent of the affected children have started to go to schools and remaining children will soon join them and start leading a normal life," said Savita Singh, a social worker. "People are also coming forward to perform the last rites of such persons which again showcases a significant change in their mentality," she concluded. 