 KANPUR: Aimed at working effectively for better treatment for the HIV positive persons, quality life and to discuss ways to link them with the ART centres, a workshop was organised under the aegis of the Kanpur Network of People Living with HIV AIDS Society, at Awadhpuri on Wednesday.   Speaking at the workshop, the chief guest of the programme chief medical officer (CMO) Kanpur, Dr SK Tewari said that information is the first step in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevention. Ignorance about the disease and how the virus is transmitted can generate fear and prejudice towards those who are infected. Though the awareness levels are high in students and young population, due to migratory student population in other states, this group is becoming more vulnerable of getting HIV infections, because of their tendencies to experiment with sex. "AIDS is spreading in India at an alarming rate, fuelled by an increasingly casual attitude towards sex, coupled with a tradition of public silence and reluctance to grasp the issues", Dr Tewari added.   District president of the Network, Shrikrishna informed the participants about the various effective ways to link more and more HIV positives with the Network, so that they are able to receive proper medication and are aware about the various precautionary measures, to avoid getting other people affected due to HIV. The participants were also informed about the proper nutritional diet to be provided to HIV positives so that their quality of life is not at all affected.   Whereas, two chest and tuberculosis specialist Dr Sankalp and Dr Vivek Verma also informed the doctors present on the occasion regarding the precaution, while treating an HIV positive. They also demanded the opening of an ARTC centre in the city at the earliest. Giving a reason for this Dr Sankalp claimed, "Though all the HIV /AIDS persons are being provided free medication by the Government but they have to travel to Lucknow, Meerut, and Varanasi to get their medication from the ARTC. "But to avoid travelling to other city most of the people remain bereft of the medication facility," he added. However, Tewari said, "HIV/AIDS is more of a social cause which comes with a vision which leads to a social mission."     