LUCKNOW: INDEX-2009, the annual fair organised by the students of the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, (IIM-L), will be held at a new venue with a new message this year. The two-day event will be held on November 28 and 29 the Colvin Taluqdars' College campus opposite Lucknow University. The INDEX has joined hands with the Uttar Pradesh State Aids Control Society (UPSACS) to organise a series of events leading up to World AIDS Day to be held on December 1.The INDEX is actually a disguised market research, one of its kind developed by the IIM-L students. Being organised successfully for past 14 years, one finds a number of theme-based game stalls apart from entertainment and on-the-spot competitions. The games are so designed that they bring out all relevant information from the participants who don't get a hint that they are actually a respondent in a survey based study. These games could be a study of brand recall among public or a survey before the launch of a product. Participants go through various levels of the game, answering different questions which students record carefully on the spot and the data is later analysed for results.The student teams had to bid for research projects offered by the companies by submitting their proposals for the games. The best one gets the chance to execute the proposal on ground. This year, 12 market research project have been sanctioned, which is more than 2008 (10 projects) and 2007 (9 projects). The insights given by the students are valued by the companies and around 60% of the companies commission projects year after year, which reflects the trust they have in the quality of research conducted by students. This edition of INDEX promises more attractive and enjoyable games based on themes of various film, k-soaps and political events. The fair has something for every member of the family.Apart from these games, INDEX will also have personality contest Mr & Ms INDEX, antakshari, kids dance competition among others. Salsa will also be seen at the fair with dancers from performing on stage. IIM-L's in-house band 3.4 will display their talent with a rock show on the last day. There will also be a play-pen for young children. INDEX will also organise inter-college street play competition involving various colleges of Lucknow on November 26 and 27 in top malls in the city between 6 and 8 pm. The street plays are to make people aware of HIV and AIDS. Best entries among them will also perform in the fair on November 29. INDEX 2009 will have a "sufi nite" on November 28, at 5:30 pm.Prof Ajay Garg, Chairperson, Student Affairs, IIM-L, while briefing reporters about the event on Wednesday, said that Index is the biggest market research event across B-schools in India. "Over 300 students have been working for past for months in the research exercise designing proposals, questionnaires, converting the questionnaire into games and designing the props required to implement these games targeting various sectors such banking, FMCG etc," he said. Another new initiative this year is Pragyan, the inter-school science exhibition contest in association with Regional Science City. There would also be a food fest and baby show for children upto to three years of age.