 AHMEDABAD: Deepali Patel, 24, was distraught when she was diagnosed HIV positive after unexplained fever for months. Her husband Mahendra, fortunately, tested negative.   What would be the future of Deepali? Will Deepali be abandoned like hundreds of women who are turned out of their homes the moment they test positive for HIV across the country?   Deepali and Mahendra are very much together today and recently became proud parents of a healthy baby boy. Getting over the initial shock, the couple realised they loved each other and wanted to start a family together. They then approached doctors to help Deepali conceive a child using artificial reproductive techniques with Mahendra's sperms to protect him from getting infected.   While discrimination may still plague majority of HIV positive patients, here are some of the growing number of cases that are proving to be beacons of hope for others. These families have refused to let HIV infection end their lives!   "It is amazing to see the kind of concern family are now having for HIV positive woman. It is so touching to see in-laws coming and telling me to take care of their daughter-in-law," says Dr Riddhi Shukla who specialises in delivering children of HIV affected couples.   Dr Shukla says she has helped nearly 15 couples, who had one partner negative and other positive, to achieve parenthood.   "One sees a heart-warming change in attitude as a lot of partners and family members now stand by HIV patients," says infectious diseases specialist Dr Atul Patel who sees nearly 500 fresh patients annually.   "Earlier, one would see near zero-tolerance for partners, especially women, who tested positive for HIV. But now, there is increasing acceptance as new treatments like Anti Retro-Viral Therapy (ART) allow patients to live disease-free life for many years," says Jitendra Maharaj, ART counsellor at Civil Hospital.   Maharaj says that unfortunately it is not the highly educated, moneyed class but the middle class people who are more sympathetic to people with HIV.   