 PUNE: The analysis of spread of HIV infection among children has revealed that there are 14,148 HIV positive children in the state. Of them, 4,457 are on the life-saving antiretroviral treatment (ART) and every month 15 children are put on ART.   "HIV infection progresses more aggressively in infants than in adults. In children, the immune system is underdeveloped and acquiring HIV infection thwarts their further growth," said Kananika Tripathy, a UNICEF consultant attached to the Maharashtra State Aids Control Society (MSACS).   Infectious disease expert Sanjay Pujari said, "It is recommended that HIV positive infant, less than one year old, should be put on ART. Kids born to HIV infected mothers have to go through a DNA test so that ART can be started. Unfortunately, this test cannot be offered routinely due to high costs. The test is available in private hospitals but not at government set-ups. That's one of the limitations in starting ART in infants less than one year old when the benefit is maximum. For children between one and six years of age, the ART is recommended when the CD4 count drops below 25."   As per the National AIDS Control Society (NACO), India is home to 1,00,000 HIV infected children of which 40,000 urgently require ART to survive. However, only 10,000 such children are getting the treatment,   About patterns of the infection in the country, Tripathy said, "About 35 per cent of the 2.6 million estimated HIV cases in India are women. Around 15% to 35% of the children get the infection from their mothers. Majority of the children living with HIV can be saved by timely administration of paediatric ART."   The paediatric HIV drugs are being made available in all the 42 ART centres in Maharashtra so that children get equal importance against adults as far as treatment for the deadly disease is concerned, added Tripathy.   "Treatment within the first few months of life can dramatically improve the survival rate among children. That's why the DNA tests will be vital in India's fight against HIV," said Madhu Oswal, founder member of Mukta HIV/AIDS helpline. 