 KANPUR: Sushil (name changed) an employee in a private firm has been suffering from acute pain in his abdomen for the past few days. The doctor diagnosed him with appendix and asked him to undergo an operation. Though, much before his operation Sushil was diagnosed positive in his HIV test. After knowing his HIV status, the doctor denied to perform the operation.   Taking a strong cognizance of the entire situation, the Uttar Pradesh State AIDS Control Society (AIDS) in association with UP Network of People Living with HIV AIDS, is organising a sensitisation programme for all the private and government doctors across the state. So that such kind of situations could be prevented.   Giving a reason for this, president of the Kanpur Network of People Living with HIV AIDS, Shrikrishna said that Sushil is not the only one who was denied the treatment by the doctors after knowing the HIV status. In the recent past around three to four such cases have come to notice in which a number of HIV positive persons were denied treatment in the private and government hospitals.   Under this project all the 70 district of Uttar Pradesh would be covered. As for the sensitization of the doctors, 10 doctors and 10 volunteers have been shortlisted. All these people would be provided a three-day training programme starting from February 10 to 12. Later, these two groups would be divided into 10 teams and each team constituting of one doctor and one volunteer would be given the responsibility for covering around 7 district for the sensitization programme.   During the sensitization process the trainers would provide technical training to all the doctors regarding the correct way of treating an HIV positive without getting infected and also breaking the taboos. The doctors would also be informed that the HIV positives should not be kept in isolation even for the treatment purpose and should be kept in the same ward along with other patients.   Shrikrishna further said that the doctors would also be informed that before conducting an HIV test for a person, there should be a pre and post counselling session, along with a written consent letter of the person even if he or she is HIV negative. He concluded by saying that this scheme would definitely be helpful for the HIV positives, as they have to face much social boycott and at times denied admitted in the Hospital for the treatment of any other ailment. 