 CHENNAI: If you go by numbers, city-based gynaecologist Dr Amudha Hari should be very pleased. For she has helped over 500 HIV +ve women deliver perfectly healthy babies over the last 15 years.   But, on the eve of World AIDS Day, this private practitioner was mulling over the fate of a young woman with HIV who had come to her for an abortion. "Her husband and family forced her to opt for an abortion after both she and her spouse tested positive. She was keen on having a baby and now she is being treated for depression and psychosis as well," says Dr Amudha.   Women, says Amudha, still get a raw deal when it comes to making choices. "I know that having a baby is an additional burden. But it should have been her choice," she says. That decision would have been in tune with this year's World AIDS Day theme of universal access' to treatment, prevention and care and recognition of these as fundamental rights'.   Back in the 1990s, when she started helping HIV positive women deliver, there was just fear, even among health professionals. "I was coughing non-stop for nearly three months after I did the first c-section. I was so afraid that when I went to receive my medical test, I couldn't stop my hands from shaking," recalls the doctor.   That is when she got an inkling about the trauma people went through even while going in for testing. "Now we are more aware of how HIV spreads and the precautions we need to take. But city hospitals still find ways to say no' to persons seeking treatment," she says.   Training medical personnel, providing universal work precautions from masks to gumboots and ensuring safe waste disposal are some of the ways to dispel fears and bring about attitudinal changes.   "The government should also take more efforts to bring data lying with the private sector into public domain. We also need a more proactive monitoring body to evaluate access to treatment in the private sector," says Dr Amudha, who has received a lifetime achievement from the Tamil Nadu government for her services.   Meanwhile, she still finds time to identify ways and means to reach out to more people. "We figured that dentists in the state have not been trained to identify people who may be HIV +ve. So we organised a training programme with the help of UNICEF, Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society and Indian Dental Association.                                                         