 MUMBAI: A month after an incorrect HIV test report at civic-run M W Desai Hospital turned Goregaon resident Firdos Sagar's life topsy-turvy, the civic administration has announced an inquiry into the matter.   Mother of two, Firdos had a miscarriage allegedly because of the mental trauma she underwent after being handed a report showing her as HIV-positive in April. Two subsequent tests have proved that she is not HIV-positive.   "I have ordered a probe and we will have a report in a few days,'' said chief medical superintendent of BMC hospitals, Seema Malik. The Mumbai District AIDS Control Society is also looking into the matter. Firdos' husband took up the issue with local politicians and the Dindoshi police.   Flip-flops are expected in HIV testing, commonly called `false positives' or `false negatives', which is why the World Health Organisation (WHO) prescribes a three-test regimen over a period of six months before a patient is termed HIV-positive.   But Firdos' case reveals the sorry state of the city's HIV/AIDS control programme. An HIV diagnosis isn't always doled out with the compassion and counselling that the WHO recommends, say doctors. "The BMC conducts spot tests. In case of a positive report, the tests should be verified. If a woman is handed the HIV-positive report on the basis of a spot test, it is highly irresponsible and proves that we have no system in place as far as HIV\AIDS is concerned,'' said HIV specialist Dr J K Maniar who consults at Jaslok Hospital in Peddar Road.   Firdos, then two months pregnant, underwent an HIV test as part of her routine pregnancy check-ups. "Firdos went to collect her report. The doctor simply handed her the report, told her she was HIV positive and that she should go to JJ Hospital for treatment,'' said Naazim.   "She asked the doctor to check again as she had tested negative for HIV during her two other pregnancies, but the doctor told her that she should get her husband tested,'' said Naazim, adding that Firdos had collapsed from the shock and had to be brought home by relatives of other patients. The couple said they asked for a retest, but officials at the testing centre told them they were not sitting around only to handle her case.   "I would go to work, but worry about Firdos taking an extreme step like suicide,'' added Naazim. On April 10, Naazim took Firdos for a retest at Sanjivan Medical Centre in Malad (E) which showed her as HIV-negative. The family conducted a third test at an Oshiwara maternity home where Firdos tested negative.   Sachin Chavan of the NCP, who has helped the family in their fight, said, "AIDS agencies spend so much money on awareness, but no one concentrates on testing and counselling.'' 