 LUDHIANA: Now HIV infected people need not go to other places such as Chandigarh, Jalandhar and Amritsar for treatment, the city's Civil Hospital has been declared as a link antiretroviral therapy (ART) centre. ART is a therapy that improves the life quality of HIV patients with treatment that maximally suppresses the HIV virus.   Last year, the Punjab health minister had announced plans to set up two such link centres in the state - one in Ludhiana and the other one in Ferozepur. Till now, there were only three such centres, in Chandigarh, Amritsar and Jalandhar and it was very difficult for patients to continue their treatment.   "If the patient is diagnosed as HIV positive then along with the treatment the patients would get post-counselling, free of cost," said Dr Jasbir Singh, in charge of the blood transfusion department of the Civil Hospital.   "At present, in the state there are three centres that are located far-off and common man cannot afford even the travelling expenses, so this is a good initiative by the government," he added.   "This centre will be linked to PGI, Chandigarh and all the medicines will be provided by them, initially, the patient would have go to Chandigarh. Then the follow-up can be done from the Civil Hospital itself as this is a lifelong treatment," said one of the members of the hospital's internal functioning body.   "I'm taking treatment from Chandigarh, but belong to Ludhiana, so now, the PGI has referred me to the civil hospital, Ludhiana," said an HIV patient. he said that in a way it is a boon for him as now he need not go all the way to Chandigarh for the treatment.   Dr Jasbir Singh, in charge of the Civil Hospital's blood transfusion department, said, "The new centre in Ludhiana will be a boon for HIV patients. The hospital has already begun providing its services from March 1. The National Aids Control Society (NACO) also plans to issue smart cards to those patients who are continuously on the move such as the truck drivers and migrant labourers. By producing the cards these patients will be given medicines free of cost from any ART centre." 