 VADODARA: In a shocking incident, four members of a family reportedly suffering from HIV were found dead in their house in Makarpura here on Wednesday. The couple committed suicide by consuming poison which they also gave to their two minor daughters, who died too. While the police are investigating the incident, initial inquiry suggested that the family was reportedly diagnosed HIV positive.   The agony caused by the disease is being seen as a major reason behind the extreme step taken by the couple. "The deceased's relatives told us that the couple was tested HIV positive a few years ago. They were suffering from pain and hence, may have committed suicide and killed their daughters," said L Katara, Makarpura police inspector.   "We were told that the kids too were suffering from the disease. We have found some medical reports that showed the entire family to be HIV positive. But we haven't found any suicide note from the house," Katara told TOI.   The couple were in the age group between 35-40 and their children were aged 4 and 15. Their bodies were found lying in the hall by the tenant in the house.   "I left around 7.30 am on Wednesday to drop my kids school. When I was leaving, I heard the sound of television but didn't suspect anything foul," said the tenant Pradeep, who stayed in an adjacent room.   "When I came back around 2 pm, the windows and doors were closed and the television was still on. I opened the window from outside and saw all the four lying on the floor following which I immediately called up ambulance service," he said.   The man used to run a medium unit of lathe machines in Makarpura-GIDC and wasn't facing any financial problems, his relatives stated.   Pradeep, who was staying as a tenant in the house since 2002, however, said he wasn't aware of the couple being HIV positive. The suicide has left the neighbours shocked. One of them said she had seen the woman moving out of her house to buy milk on Tuesday night. Fresh tomatoes and vegetables too were found stocked in the kitchen. 