 KOLKATA: Social ostracization and abandonment by her husband drove Lakshmi Samanta (25) to jump to death from the terrace of School of Tropical Medicine (STM) around noon on Saturday.   Lakshmi's brother Sukhdeb and sister-in-law Rinku got her admitted to STM on Friday afternoon. Doctors examined her on Saturday morning and found her very depressed. Hours later, she managed to sneak out of the ward she was admitted and climbed to the building's terrace from where she jumped three floors.   Doctors and nurses initially didn't notice that the patient wasn't on her bed in the ward. Later, when the thud from Lakshmi's fall alerted people in the hospital, they were surprised to learn that she managed to walk out unnoticed.   A resident of Tarakeswar, Hooghly, Lakshmi married Rajendra a couple of years ago. Months after her marriage, she went to Rajendra's ancestral home in Bihar where she fell ill. She was examined on her return from Bihar and found to be HIV-positive.   On hearing that his wife had contracted the HIV virus, Rajendra abandoned her, who was forced to return to Tarakeswar, where she took shelter in Sukhdeb's shanty in the Manikpalli locality.   The meagre pay Lakshmi earned as a domestic help could hardly suffice for her treatment. Sukhdeb and Rinku had been taking her to STM for treatment for the past 18 months. "She was admitted here earlier as well. We discharged her then as her condition improved. This time, she came to us with meningitis, backache and fungal infection,'' said STM superintendent Tamal Kanti Ghosh.   "Like several other HIV-positive married women, she was abandoned by her husband and society at large. Though her brother and sister-in-law were very supportive, they were too poor to finance her treatment. She was depressed to find herself socially and financially helpless to fight on,'' said an STM doctor. Police, too, confirmed that depression drove Lakshmi to suicide.   A shocked Rinku set out for the hospital immediately after hearing that Lakshmi had taken her life.       