 BANGALORE: Nine out of ten people with Hepatitis B and C do not know they are suffering from it simply because there may be no symptoms in the first six months of infection.   On the occasion of World Hepatitis Day on Tuesday, doctors say that approximately one in every 12 people worldwide lives with either chronic Hepatitis B or C that affects more number of people than even HIV or any form of cancer. Despite the incidence being higher, the awareness levels are inexplicably low.   Consultant gastroentrology Dr Dinesh Kini says acute viral hepatitis usually results in fatigue, fever, nausea and vomiting, but these are common to many other diseases. Therefore, to make a diagnosis, a clinician will often need to use additional tests. Hepatitis C is often referred to as a silent killer.   Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver that is caused by various viruses. Over time, Hepatitis seriously damages the liver and can eventually lead to hospitalization, liver cancer, and the need for liver transplantation or even death.   Hepatologist Dr B S Satyaprakash says there are at least six different strains of the Hepatitis virus, including Hepatitis A, B, and C. Hepatitis B and C are considered the most serious strains and affect the greatest number of people. It can become life-threatening if it remains undetected for long.   According to Dr Satyaprakash, most patients of Hepatitis C in India have contracted the infection from blood transfusions. Injections or operations using non-disposable re-used needles or equipment accounts for about a third of the cases. Also, Hepatitis B is often transmitted unknowingly from a `carrier' mother to her offspring and, hence, tends to affect other family members.   Doctors warn that people tattooing or piercing their bodies (using unsterilized equipment) should be careful. Hepatitis B can be prevented by taking three doses of Hepatitis B vaccine. Currently, there is no vaccine for Hepatitis C. The best way to prevent HCV is to avoid high-risk activities.   SILENT KILLER  * `Am I Number 12?' is a campaign launched by the World Health Alliance to highlight the growing incidence of Hepatitis and the disease's magnitude.  * World wide, an estimated three to four million people are infected with the virus each year.  * In India alone, the death rates from Hepatitis C exceed over 100,000 per year.  * Every 15th carrier is an Indian, which results in about 12.5 million sufferers in India alone.  * HBV and HCV kill ten times more people than HIV every year (WHO estimate). 