 LUDHIANA: Numerous HIV-positive people working as outreach workers under Punjab State AIDS Control Society have been handed termination letters. Thus, many putting up with the stigma of being HIV-positive are in a predicament with regard to their source of livelihood. How they would meet their daily expenses is a matter of concern.   Outreach workers motivate people to go for HIV tests, dispel myths and misconceptions and ensure that people infected by the disease get the right kind of treatment.   Kalyan Singh (name changed) said it had been four years since he was found to be infected by HIV and had been working as an outreach worker. Last month, he received a letter from Punjab AIDS Control Society with regard to termination of services. He added that the termination has come as a bolt from the blue for contractual workers as the letter specified that all outreach workers be put under the rolling continuation channel grant (RCC) and the services be terminated from November 30.   Rajesh (name changed) added that all outreach workers are getting verbal assurance, but how to manage their daily expenses is worrisome.   Echoing the view, Sukhvir (name changed), another outreach worker, said in layman's language, outreach workers would come under the purview of RCC, for which an NGO would be responsible and all salaries that are presently coming through Punjab AIDS Control Society would come from an NGO. He added that AIDS Control Society has not come up with any time-frame within which the outreach workers would get the job.   Talking on the same lines, another worker said without jobs, life would come to a standstill as workers would be hard-pressed to meet daily expenses. He added that government should do something about this as till outreach workers are under RCC, they would be jobless.   Jagjit Mann, who is running an NGO, "The Positive People", said government initiated the scheme and despite outreach workers having proved their mettle in showing that they are no less than other people, they have got termination letters. He added that the workers are already besieged with problems and without jobs, life would be all the more tough. On being asked about the NGO's course of action, Mann added that the organization would approach higher authorities.      Despite extensive steps taken by various NGOs and government, AIDS patients continue to face societal discrimination. Narrating her woes, Sharan Kaur, an HIV patient from Talwandi who was here for a meeting organized by an NGO, said, "I haven't received a single penny as part of the benefit scheme. After my husband's death, our financial situation worsened... I had to borrow money for bus fare to come here." Unaware that her husband was infected, Kaur's life got even more tough when her in-laws asked relatives to boycott her. "They curse me every time they see me," she said, with her voice giving away her pain. From the past one-and-a-half years, Kaur has been moving from pillar to post to find a job and also benefit from the health scheme announced for HIV-positive people. "I've filled one form after the other, but employment seems a distant dream," the 35-year-old added. Another victim of the deadly disease, Lakshmi from Rajewala, said, "If things continue as they are, that time is not far when I will be on the road. People talk about equality, but there is none." 