 MUMBAI: HIV positive persons who can't afford to pay for their medication came forward on Tuesday to make themselves heard. Saying that second-line anti-retroviral (ART) treatment was too expensive, they demanded that the government increase the number of centres providing free treatment, even as officials said they would offer `alternative treatment' in Maharashtra soon.   In Maharashtra, the second line drugs are available only at JJ Hospital. Second line drugs are essential for some persons living with HIV on whom the first line drugs have failed because their body has become resistant to those medicines. However, alternative drugs are those which are given when persons develop side-effects to the first-line treatment.   "I was being given the first line drugs, but then the doctor said these would not work anymore. They advised me to start the second line ART. When I went to JJ Hospital, they did not provide the medicines. I cannot afford them on my own,'' says Alpana (34).   Santosh, another HIV positive person, says, "I have been on the first line treatment for two years. My doctor said that now I need the second line. But at JJ Hospital, they said that I need alternative treatment.''   Alternate therapy is different from second line therapy, say doctors. "They are two different lines of treatment. Patients have to understand that taking the wrong treatment can cause further harm to their systems,'' says Dr Manisha Ghate of the National AIDS Research Institute, Pune.   "Often, the doctor might think the patient needs the second line treatment, but in reality, the patient needs alternate therapy. The problem arises when the patients are made to do tests again in JJ Hospital and are prescribed a separate type of treatment,'' says Dr Rekha Jain from NACO.   "Alternative treatment will start in Maharashtra in August-September. We cannot promise the patients anything, but we are trying to work towards their betterment,'' says Ramesh Devkar, project director of MSACS.    