WASHINGTON: For 25 years, researchers have tried and failed to develop an HIV vaccine, primarily by focusing on a small number of engineered "super antibodies" to fend off the virus before it takes hold. Now, a team at Rockefeller University has identified a diverse group of antibodies in "slow-progressing" HIV patients whose coordinated pack hunting, it claims, can knock down the virus as well as their super-antibody cousins fighting solo. According to the scientists, the research suggests that an effective HIV vaccine may come from a shotgun approach using of a wide range of natural antibodies rather than just an engineered magic bullet. "We wanted to try something different, so we tried to reproduce what's in the patient. And what's in the patient is many different antibodies that individually have limited neutralising abilities but together are quite powerful. "This should make people think about what an effective vaccine should look like," team's leader Michel C Nussenzweig was quoted by the 'Nature' journal as saying. HIV strains mutate rapidly, making them adversaries of the immune system. But one element is shared universally among the diverging strains -- a protein on the envelope of virus, called gp140, that HIV needs to infect immune cells. Prior research has shown that four randomly engineered antibodies that block the activity of that protein prevent the virus from infecting immune cells in culture, but all attempts to coax the human body into producing those four have failed. So, in their research, involving six infected people, the team isolated 433 antibodies from their blood serum that specifically targeted the envelope protein -- the chink in HIV's protean armour. Then they cloned the antibodies and produced them in bulk, mapped which part of the envelope protein each targeted, and gauged how effective each was in neutralising the virus. And, in the process, they identified a new structure within the envelope protein -- called the gp120 core. "Individually, they're not as strong as the Famous Four. But in high concentrations, a combination of the sets of antibodies cloned from the individual patients seemed to act as teams to knock down the virus in cell culture and any single antibody studied to date," Nussenzweig said