 NEW DELHI: Despite all the talk of an "AIDS-free generation'', progress in elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV virus still leaves a lot to be desired.   Just 40% deliveries in the country happen in medical institutions and nearly 50% HIV+ pregnant women do not get preventive treatment despite counselling. This World AIDS Day, on December 1, the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) is making efforts to spread awareness about the Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission (PPTCT) programme.   "India started the PPTCT programme a little late. But a lot of PPTCT sites have come up in the last few years. Yet a lot needs to be done in order to eliminate the problem. We aim at an aids-free generation in the next 4-5 years, but this can be achieved only if we make concentrated efforts in creating awareness and taking the PPTCT programme to a majority of people,'' said Dr Charles Gilks, Country Director, UNAIDS. There are close to 6,500 places where the PPTCT programme is available.   Under the PPTCT programme, pregnant women are counselled for HIV testing and those who test positive are given a dose of Nevirapine drug during labour and another dose is given to the baby within 72 hours of its birth. This preventive therapy can reduce the risk of transmission of the life-threatening virus by 40%. "There are 15-40% chances of a transmission if a mother is HIV+. But if the drug is administered on time to the mother and baby, there is 40% decrease in the risk of transmission,'' said Dr Vatsala Dadhwal, associate professor, gynaecologist, AIIMS.   But there are many impediments in the successful implementation of the PPTCT in India. Poor institutional delivery rate, fear of stigma and discrimination by healthcare providers, identifying HIV+ pregnant women, poor participation of private health sector etc are some of the main obstacles in achieving the goal. "In India, 40% deliveries take place in medical facilities. And just 33% deliveries take place in government setups. At present, there are very few private healthcare facilities which are part of the PPTCT programme,'' said Ivonne Camaroni, chief, HIV/AIDS project, Unicef. But what is encouraging is the fact that "Close to 95% pregnant women, after counselling, are open to the idea of getting their HIV/AIDS test done,'' said Camaroni. 