 MARGAO: As a follow-up to the activities carried out by the Red Ribbon Express, the south Goa district centre of the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sanganthan (NYKS) has established 50 Red Ribbon clubs.   Red Ribbon clubs are entirely dedicated to AIDS awareness activities, which is a major objective of the Red Ribbon Express mission, an initiative of the union health ministry.   Work on formation of Red Ribbon clubs in the state commenced   after the Red Ribbon Express, the unique seven coach train with a pointed health message, specifically aimed at taking AIDS prevention message into the heartland of India, visited Goa on August 15 last year.   NYKS district chief co-ordinator Shirish Lawande informed that the clubs are functional in Quepem, Canacona, Sanguem and Mormugao.   "In Salcete NYKS has set up only around three Red Ribbon clubs as we do not have many youth clubs here. However, we are trying to expand our network in Salcete," Lawande told TOI.   NYKS has a network of 117 youth clubs in the five blocks of Quepem, Canacona, Salcete, Sanguem and Mormugao.   "As some of these youth clubs are not registered, they do not fulfill the criteria of getting Red Ribbon recognition," he said adding, "Our target is to establish as many as 100 clubs in order to carry out multi-activity social mobilization campaigns on HIV/AIDS as outlined by the Red Ribbon Express."   "Delivering lectures, conducting seminars and holding street plays on HIV/AIDS are the main activities of these clubs throughout the rural areas of South Goa. Also rural youth clubs will facilitate interaction on the topic among the youth and other vulnerable population on HIV/AIDS which is still considered a topic of social stigma," said Lawande.   NYKS which boasts of having an extensive network of youth organizations, especially in the rural areas, has been roped in by the National AIDS Control Organisation and Goa State AIDS Control Society to carry on the mission expressed through the Red Ribbon Express, a mega project for AIDS awareness in India.   "Red Ribbon Clubs are currently involved in activities like sensitization, advocacy, focus group discussions, street plays, cultural performances and rallies with the involvement of major stakeholders like the NGOs, youth clubs and social organizations," said Lawande.   NYKS has also set up a youth resource centre with a 36 bed youth hostel at the premises of the animal husbandry at Sonsoddo, Fatorda to accommodate rural and exchange programme volunteers in a bid to facilitate NYKS activities in the district.   "The centre now acts as an information centre to the youth. The place will also serve as an employment exchange platform for the unemployed youth, shortly," he said. 