 AHMEDABAD: Rohit and Sumit want to go back to school. Rehana misses her classmates and Pratik misses the merriment during recess.   But all of them are unable to attend school for almost a year now. These little one have one thing in common. They are carriers of HIV were thrown out of school when authorities came to know about their infection.   "In January this year, when a school teacher came to know about my child's HIV infection, he saw to it that the kid is thrown out of the school. But when we protested and warned them of legal action, they played a trick and debarred him on the ground that he was short of attendance," says Vishal Christian (name changed), parent of an eight-year-old, adding that his son remains ill often and the school took advantage of this.   Seven per cent of the 1.38 lakh HIV infected population in the state is made of children. "We have been working with more than 1,000 HIV-infected children. What adds to their misery is the attitude of school and relatives," says Daksha Patel, president, Gujarat State Network Of People with HIV/AIDS   "HIV positive children remain the most neglected among the infected people. As they are not aware with their rights, school authorities don't even blink before throwing them out. It's high civil society and the government woke up for the plight of these kids," says sociologists Gaurang Jani.      Standing up for HIV positive kids, who have either lost one or both parents, the state government on Monday announced two hostel facilities for such kids. The state government in partnership with state health and family welfare Gujarat State Network Of People with HIV/AIDS is constructing residential facilities for HIV positive children at Gandhinagar and Surat. The two hostels will initially house 50 children each. "The hostels will come up by 2010," said state health and family welfare minister Jay Narayan Vyas.     This homeopath doctor is an angel for many HIV positive kids. Amrish Tripathi, through his trust, sponsors the education of around 50 HIV positive children. He also treats them for free and regularly conducts workshops and seminars for schools and parents to create awareness. Also, on all the major festivals, he doesn't forget to gift goodies to these kids.   "Life for positive kids is really miserable. Children in their school and housing society to not play with them. Also, they frequently fall ill and often get into depression," says Tripathi, adding that it is one in cases that relatives take care of affected kids after their parents have died. 