 VARANASI: The UNICEF, in association with the Banaras Network for Positive People with HIV/AIDS Society (BNP+), organised an interactive session for HIV positive affected children and their mothers with mediapersons on Friday.   Around 20 such children and their mothers from Varanasi and adjoining districts took part in the programme to express their views and problem. According to Manoj Singh, the key person of the BNP+ affiliated with the Uttar Pradesh Welfare for People Living with HIV/AIDS Society, there are around 1,000 persons living with HIV in the district. They are members of the network and around 500 of them take active part in various activities organised from time to time. The network holds programmes like counselling, awareness campaign and eliminating social stigma.   According to another member, Gopal Gond, the vice-president of the network, around 10,500 persons are infected with HIV in eastern region of UP. Speaking on the occasion, women like Anita and Manorama pointed out the problems of poor people in getting the treatment. Gond spoke about the practical problems related to livelihood of the HIV infected people. According to him, such persons are deprived of benefits of the government programmes like NREGA due to physical weakness. The stigma like social ostracism, rejection and avoidance of people with AIDS (PWAs) were also raised during the session. They, however, said situation was changing slowly with the people coming forward with a broader outlook. The programme was also addressed by Augustine Veliath, the communication specialist of UNICEF.      # The second line treatment for those HIV patients who have become resistant to the standard first line ART has been started at the ART Centre of the Institute of Medical Science, Banaras Hindu University (BHU)   # The BHU ART Centre has been upgraded to the Centre of Excellence for HIV Care. The second line therapy was started at BHU in December last   # There are seven ART centres in the state, including CSMMU Lucknow, IMS-BHU Varanasi, LLRM Medical College Meerut, Motilal Nehru Medical College Allahabad, Baba Raghav Das Medical College Gorakhpur, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Aligarh and SN Medical College Agra   # According to UPSACS reports, there were 7,063 HIV patients, including 6,710 adults and 353 children on ART at the seven centres in the state till December last   Uttar Pradesh Welfare for People Living with HIV/AIDS Society   # Uttar Pradesh Welfare for People Living with HIV/AIDS Society (UPNP+) is a community-based organisation representing the needs of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)   # UPNP+ promotes holistic and participatory approach for community empowerment and gives priority to PLWHA (especially women and children) and has outreach in 24 districts   # The mission of the network is to improve the quality of life of people living with HIV and AIDS in the state   # The goal is to reduce HIV-related morbidity and mortality in adults and children, and mitigate the impact of HIV on children and women headed households   