 NAGPUR: "I want to become a doctor," said the 11-year-old girl. Already diagnosed HIV positive, fate may not permit her to become one but she dares to dream even in the face of the inevitable. "I am regularly taking medicines and doctors said I was fine," said she smilingly. The chirpy girl's indomitable spirit defeating the fear of the deadly virus, closeted in her body, screamed of hopefulness and a death-defying zeal to live.   Sunita (name changed), whose infectious liveliness was also reflected on the faces of the families affected by HIV, was one of the participants of the cultural event jointly organized by Bharatiya Adim Jati Sevak Sangh (BAJSS) and Nagpur Multipurpose Social Service Society at Vidarbha Sahitya Sammelan on the occasion of World Aids Day observed globally on December 1.   Sunita's five-year-old sister Sunanda (name changed), who was diagnosed negative, too was present at the event. Their reflected the triumphant spirit. Having been ostracised from their larger family after being diagnosed positive, the parents of the sisters were left without any support. Supported by BAJSS, they started their fight back with a small roadside snacks shop. Soon they could turn it into a decent eatery. The NGO also ensured that the family was supported with medicinal needs and counselling apart from sending the sisters to school.   Under the sponsorship of Mamta-HIMC (Health Institute for Mother and Child), the event was organised with the central theme of spreading awareness about use of cotrimoxazole (CTX) prophylaxis among the HIV-exposed children, infants, adolescents and ones already living with the virus. CTX prophylaxis or prophylactic therapy is learnt to reduce the morbidity or mortality rate among the HIV patients and also have a significant beneficial influence on the CD4-cell count. World Health Organization guidelines also highlights CTX prophylaxis as an inexpensive means of HIV intervention.   "CTX prophylaxis is easily available at health centres but there is no awareness of such therapies even among medical fraternity and families of HIV patients," said an activist whose efforts were critical in the show. "Our aim was to increase the accessibility of children below the age of five to CTX prophylaxis and improve the availability of double nutrition to the children living with HIV," said the project co-ordinator adding that the programmes of World Aids Day in 2009 shall revolve around the theme of `Universal Access and Human Rights'. According to a statistics presented at the event, CTX prophylaxis was made available to 58.7% children a programme aimed at the bettering the lives of children living with HIV or hailing from families affected by HIV. "We are aiming at 100% coverage of CTX prophylaxis among children," said the activist.   If the BAJSS's sisters symbolically represented the story of fight back in life, NMSSS presented a skit on a real-life story where a mother-daughter-- both widows-- were hounded by a bunch of insensitive neighbours who targeted them for their HIV-positive status. Despite repeated approach, police did not come to help until the intervention of the NGO ended their plight. Police were compelled to intervene to broker peace.   "Our message is strong and clear. We shall come together to fight for any family or individual facing humiliation from insensitive section of the society," said the social worker who had taken up cudgels on behalf of the helpless duo. The event also aimed at showing solidarity with HIV positive patients. 