 FEROZEPUR: Apart from Pakistani bullets, Border Security Force (BSF) jawans in Punjab are facing a new threat - AIDS. Each of the seven units posted in the Ferozepur sector along the Indo-Pak border has at least two full-blown cases of the deadly virus - most probably passed on by sex workers.   "Last few years have seen an alarming rise in AIDS cases in the border force," said Shalinder Kaur, medical officer, BSF, Ferozepur sector. ``A couple of jawans in each BSF unit in the area have contracted the deadly virus and are undergoing treatment,'' she added.   The officer, however, denied that the virus has spread widely. The 14 personnel, she said, are being treated in Jalandhar with some even having been referred to Delhi. But another officer, who did not want to be named, contested her claim saying the virus has spread alarmingly within the BSF. Working for the force entails long field deployments with few domestic breaks. ``The jawans usually visit brothels in the areas, which is where the AIDS virus is spreading from,'' he said.   Endorsing this view, a jawan being treatment for AIDS, said, ``We should be granted leave and allowed to stay with our families on BSF campuses.''   Meanwhile, this border area has seen a tremendous spurt in the activities of sex workers who move around masquerading as members of orchestra groups with some of them suspected of being HIV carriers.   Claiming the authorities were aware of the situation and suitably prepared, Shalinder Kaur said that several measures have been taken to check the spread of the virus. ``Lectures and counselling sessions are being held regularly to generate awareness,'' she said.   When contacted, BSF DIG, Ferozepur sector, S K Shah, denied any knowledge of the spreading contagion saying he had only recently joined the troops. But he admitted there could be some personnel who are afflicted.   Alarmed by the increasing number of HIV/AIDS cases among police and paramilitary personnel, the Centre has decided to convene a national conference to chalk out strategies for combating the disease. The conference will also take stock of the initiatives taken by the Union home ministry for mainstreaming of paramilitary forces and state police personnel on prevention of HIV/AIDS.   Representatives of seven paramilitary forces - CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP, SSB, NSG and Assam Rifles - and all the state police forces will take part in the meeting. 