  : The best of friends since college, Deepak, Abhay, Milap and Shailesh believed in enjoying life to the hilt. They also believed in sharing everything, right down to booze and girls.   Often they would take two call girls or female escorts to Mt Abu and Diu to raise a toast to their friendship. But four years ago they decided to focus on their careers. Deepak became a real estate agent, Abhay and Milap joined their family businesses and Shailesh started an investment consultancy firm.   But, by then their past misdemeanours had come home to roost. When Milap got an HIV test done on advice from a doctor friend, whom he was consulting for STD (sexually transmitted disease), he tested positive. Soon his friends too tested HIV positive but fearing ostracism, they decided to hide their ailment and even got married to healthy girls due to family pressure. Today, the four friends, their wives and three kids are HIV positive.   But this is just the tip of the iceberg, if a recent state government report on HIV penetration is anything to go by. The report states that Ahmedabad has the highest number of HIV cases in Gujarat, almost double than the most vulnerable city Surat.   Urban Ahmedabad had 4,797 HIV patients in 2007, which was higher than 3,382 in 2006, up 118 per cent. Also, these figures do not include those being treated for HIV at private hospitals, which according to medical sources is nearly equal to cases registered at government and public health centres.   "Despite various awareness campaigns, HIV-infected people still shy away from coming out open as they fear rejection. And though cases similar to that of these four friends are rare, they do point to the increasing menace of HIV due to ignorance," said sociologist Gaurang Jani.   "Just like traditionally people insist on natal charts (janmakundalis) to select life partners, people should now insist on HIV reports before getting married," said sexologist Ambrish Tripathi.   And even if one or both partner are infected, what many don't know is that one can still have a normal child. "HIV positive parents can give birth to a normal child just by administering a simple anti retroviral (ARV) treatment during pregnancy that reduces the chances of the child getting the infection to almost zero," he added. 