MARGAO: Despite rise in the number of HIV positive and AIDS cases in the state and a law that bans discrimination of infected people by society and health care authorities' alike, injustice against them prevail. This was highlighted at a Lok Adalat conducted by World Vision India and Humsath Trust at Margao on Wednesday. HIV/AIDS infected people present at the public hearing narrated their experiences in terms of medical negligence, especially while at public treatment centres and hospitals, besides dealing with social stigma."When I went to the Goa Medical College and Hospital for a regular check-up, I was denied treatment," a woman revealed, further adding that the nurse disclosed her HIV status to another staff, which was humiliating."Such treatment is common. Though we call our state a literate one, prejudices against people like me prevail widely. Shockingly, not only in society but amongst educated persons like medical practitioners, who either deny treatment or make us wait behind," said another patient while demanding for a separate ward at hospitals.The programme deliberated on the rising number of infected people languishing at home without treatment on account of the ill treatment. "It is a serious matter to note that a large number of people infected by the deadly virus are living in the society, scared to reveal their HIV/AIDS status. Even worrying is the fact that many of them may be infecting their spouses and other members of their family, thereby spreading the disease. All this is due to the irrational stand of the society," said a speaker.Goa State AIDS Control Society (GSACS) is continuously involved in creating mass awareness, key components like setting up of voluntary counselling centres, ensuring privacy of the patients and the school education programme has not been implemented effectively. In the institutional strengthening' component, GSACS did not monitor the installation/commissioning/maintenance of the programme equipments, resulting in their idling. Besides, STD clinics were not renovated, expressed a speaker.Dr Pradeep Padwal of GSACS said that he would look into the problems of the infected people and assured that a system would be put in place as per their suggestions. "Setting up of voluntary counselling and testing centres, AIDS care centres, improving the functioning of STD clinics with emphasis on privacy of patients are some of the areas that the department is working on," he said.S Solomon of HRNL felt that right to privacy of an infected person is violated in the state. "People need to get relevant information about the disease. Doctors and medical staff are insensitive while informing HIV status to infected people. The language they use is harsh. Doctors not only refuse medical treatment to such patients, but also breach the confidentiality clause," she said. Chairperson of social welfare board, Manisha Naik and ART medical officer Dr V Viegas were present.