 LUCKNOW: Here's an official diktat to combat the stigma attached to HIV/AIDS patients. UP chief secretary AK Gupta has issued an order directing all government officers to take a pledge to work against the deadly infection. The order, issued on the eve of World AIDS Day, reportedly directs all government servants and officers to remain present in their offices at 10am on Tuesday and take the pledge.   Meanwhile, inspired by the belief of demographers that "India's young and involvement of youth can do wonders for the nation", authorities at Lucknow University, too, have stepped in to sensitise the society towards the challenges of HIV/AIDS. On Monday, the university saw formal revival of LU's Red Ribbon Club.   More than 250 students committed themselves to work actively as members of the club. The active members would continuously work for the cause of AIDS. On Monday, the volunteers collected Rupee one from everyone in exchange for one red ribbon as a donation amount. This way, the volunteers collected Rs 7,000 which they will use for a noble cause.   Coordinator, RRC, Prof Archana Shukla informed that Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV) causes Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). HIV gradually destroys the immune system. As a result, infections creep in easily, causing various diseases, eventually leading to death. The ailment begins with HIV and gradually takes the form of AIDS. The development depends on health status and behaviour of a person.   Nodal officer, anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centre, Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University, Prof AK Tripathi informed that HIV spreads through unsafe blood transfusion, unprotected sexual contact, sharing needles used in syringes, breast milk and body fluids containing blood. He said the ways to prevent HIV infection include safe sex, staying away from drugs and addiction and ensuring safe blood transfusion.   He added that there is no medicinal cure to eliminate HIV infection but it can be managed with the help of medicines. These medicines basically prevent other infections like tuberculosis or pneumonia. It may be noted that other infections with HIV are like a double whammy for patients. Certain antibiotics are also given to HIV patients to restrict multiplication of AIDS virus.   Experts emphasise on early diagnosis and treatment. In Lucknow, the ART centre at CSMMU answers various queries related to the disease. It provides facilities for diagnosis, treatment and counselling of patients suffering with HIV/AIDS.   The centre offers free HIV tests, free treatment, counselling for rehabilitation, specialised paediatric ART for children, complete medical examination/treatment, obstetrics and gynaecology services, integrated counselling and testing centre for family members and works to prevent mother-to-child transmission of the infection.   Diagnostic services are also available at the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Jhalkari Bai Women Hospital and Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Hospital. Besides, the Railway Hospital and Command Hospital also provide medicines to HIV patients.   Social activists working against HIV/AIDS say that people have very little information about their rights. It may be noted that every individual has the right to informed consent for HIV testing and keeping the status of the disease confidential. No HIV affected person must face discrimination on account of the disease. Law of the land also empowers a HIV person to seek legal remedy if rights are violated. 