 CHANDIGARH: If the proposal of the State AIDS Control Society (SACS), UT, gets a go-ahead from the PGI for its free routine tests for the HIV positive patients, almost 200 such persons shall be benefited. At present, the Centre has allocated funds for free anti-retroviral treatment (ART) in some places in the country, which costs to the tune of Rs 25,000 twice a year. However besides this, there are some routine tests which the HIV patients are required to undergo six monthly and shell out around Rs 300 each. These baseline tests are mandatory to gauge the functioning of the organs.   Informing about the development of the proposal, Vanita Gupta, director, SACS, UT said, 'The Centre has granted a huge relief for the ART patients. Despite this there are most of the HIV positives who cannot afford routine test fees. Keeping in mind this limitation, we had requested the PGI for free baseline (routine) tests.' She added, 'We are hopeful as the institute has shown interest.'   Surprisingly, the Centre has waived cost of expensive medicines, but the routine test fees which is comparatively nominal is charged everywhere in the country. But the state-based organizations can arrange for it. 'Instead of waiting for the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO) to manage funds, we have been working to help these patients pay with the initial tests and treatment,' said Vanita.   When a person is diagnosed with this virus, there are various treatments and tests, including the CD4 (cluster of differentiation 4) and viral load to know the extent of the disease. So the medicine and tests costs exceeds beyond most pockets.   In the pipeline is the nutritional support for the HIV-infected mothers and babies who require a healthy diet. Though this plan was announced a year ago, the SACS is yet to finalize it.   As Pooja Thakur, president of the Chandigarh network of the positive people, said, 'There are almost 800 such mother and children in need for this support. On the lines of the Himachal Pradesh we had requested to start this scheme where there is some amount for these patients and children for their supplements. But nothing has been done so far.'   SACS proposes to make even get routine tests for the HIV positive patients free. The move will benefit almost 200 such persons. At present, the Centre has allocated funds for free anti-retroviral treatment in some places in the country, which costs to the tune of Rs 25,000 twice a year. However, there are some routine tests which the patients are required to undergo six monthly and shell out around Rs 300 each.   