
      
      
      
      But this lanky, always-smiling , diehard Rajnikant fan harbours a secret - he is HIV positive. Now, a rare "gift" that he possesses has some of India's best-known scientists interested in him. Simon was diagnosed with HIV in 1992, but the deadly virus has not caused him any harm till now. Seventeen years later, he remains healthy, popping just a vitamin pill a day, and has not developed full-blown . The reason? Simon belongs to a rare global community called "late progressors" or "elite controllers" - people infected with HIV who stay healthy for years without requiring life-saving anti-retroviral treatment (ART).
      
      
      About one in 300 people with HIV is an elite controller. Speaking from Chennai, Dr Suniti Solomon, director of YRG Centre for Aids Research and the scientist who detected the first case of HIV/AIDS in India , in 1986, confirms , "Simon came to me with HIV in 1992 and he is perfectly healthy, even now." When one gets infected with HIV, the virus multiplies and attacks the immune system's CD4 cells responsible for protecting the body against diseases. The virus destroys these cells over a period of eight years. The cell count drops from 1,500, in a drop of blood the size of a pea, to 200. Once a patient's count goes below 250, he is put on lifesaving ART.
      
      
      However, "in people like Simon, the count does not drop. Their body has something that stops the virus from multiplying," explains Dr Solomon. Now, scientists are trying to isolate this magic weapon.
      
      
      Meanwhile, another fascinating community - mainly comprising women - has also got scientists in India excited. Called "exposed sero negative" , these are women who have, for years, had sex with HIV-positive , condom-refusing husbands but not got infected . Many have also had babies who aren't HIV positive.
      
      
      Laxmi, whose husband is an influential leader in southern India, is one of them. In her early 30s and married for the last six years, she remains hale and hearty. "We have 400 such couples and a dozen elite controllers whom we are studying to see whether they carry special genes which prevent the virus from multiplying in their bodies. The cure for AIDS may come from members of these two communities," says Dr Solomon.
      
      
      These two groups have caught the attention of AIDS scientists the world over. Recently, in the first such discovery in over a decade, scientists associated with the International Aids Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) and the Scripps Research Institute discovered two powerful new antibodies in an African male elite controller. The antibodies neutralise all major forms of HIV. In India, a project to identify and study similar patients is expected to take off by December , a health ministry official says.
      
      
      Top Indian scientists are part of a global consortium looking to isolate antibodies from elite controllers. Professor V S Chauhan, director of the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology in Delhi, part of IAVI's Neutralising Antibody Consortium, said their main job was to develop immunogens (any substance that produces immunity in the body) with the same structure as these neutralising antibodies.
      
      
      "We have, till now, isolated four antibodies that have protected people with HIV from developing AIDS in Africa and the US. In India too, there are elite controllers. If we start isolating antibodies from them, we will have a larger spectrum of antibodies," points out Dr Chauhan. Scientists say the challenge is to design immunogens with the same structure as these neutralising antibodies.
      
      
      Researchers believe they can create an effective vaccine if they are able to get the human body to produce neutralising antibodies before exposure to HIV.
      
      
      Since 1981, 40 million people have been infected with the virus. An estimated four million new infections occur annually, of which 90 per cent, are in developing countries. The world only has 20 anti-retroviral drugs to suppress the virus for some time. It is believed that a vaccine would need to teach the body to produce these powerful antibodies before exposure to the virus. But for over two decades scientists have been making futile attempts in this direction.
      
      
      Now with elite controllers coming under scrutiny, there's new hope.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      people are living with HIV globally India has an estimated
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      people living with HIV and AIDS The adult prevalence rate of HIV in India is
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Of 800,000 people with HIV registered for treatment in India, only
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      are on life-saving ART In 2008, an estimated
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      pregnant women living with HIV gave birth Globally, in 2007,
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      new infections were recorded, of which
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      were children
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      HIV-infected people needing ART still have no access to treatment, globally
    