 PANAJI: A delegation of 25-odd HIV positive persons met the Goa State AIDS Control Society (GSACS) director on Thursday and complained that there is stigmatization and lack of proper facilities, including food and medicines, at the two community care centres set up to look after patients with AIDS. The centres are run by NGOs and funded by GSACS.   Alleging that HIV positive patients are "stigmatized and treated like dirt", a 24-year-old who has been living with AIDS since a year and has been admitted to the centres "at least 10 times" as her CD4 count was less than 50, said, "This (treatment) hurts us immensely".   Another pointed to "hardly any HIV positive persons working at these centres", and alleged, "They fail to understand the pain and needs of HIV positive persons. Even the food served to us is not proper." Claiming that patients are given only rice and dal for lunch and dinner, she further alleged, "Rarely do we get fish or chicken. We get neither milk, banana nor eggs that are essential parts of the diet for HIV positive persons."   Those in-charge of the centres refuted the charges. "With Rs 60 a day we are expected to provide five meals to the patients. So often we go beyond the allotted budget and provide the best food. We give them milk, fish or chicken for lunch. But now, with the price rise, it is difficult for us to give them fruits everyday," said Sister Vinita Joseph, in-charge of Asro, the South Goa-based centre run by Caritas, Goa. She added, "We have also never looked down upon or discriminated an HIV positive person. We have treated each and every person with dignity."   Zinya D'Souza, project coordinator of the North Goa-based Freedom Foundation centre added, "We are shocked that such allegations have been made. We give the best possible food and everybody is treated with respect and dignity at the centre."   Jaffar Inamdar of Positive Lives Foundation, who lead the delegation, said these issues were brought before the director as GSACS is planning to start another such centre and they want to ensure that this is run by an HIV positive group. "A community care centre is a free short stay home, but there is no community care at these centres and they have become like hospitals," said Inamdar.   GSACS director, Dr Pradeep Padwal told TOI, "A delegation did meet me with their demands and we are examining the same. We will comply with whatever decision our higher authorities take." 