LUCKNOW: At present, the psychology department of Lucknow University, under the Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFATM), serves as the zonal resource centre for HIV/AIDS counselling for four states viz Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. Now, it will also coordinate AIDS awareness programmes on the campus. Meanwhile, as per the instructions of the state government, LU will launch its Red Ribbon Club (RRC) on the World AIDS Day, observed on December 1. "We are collaborating with our NGO partners for developing an interface between various stakeholders," said Prof Archana Shukla, coordinator, RRC, on Friday. LU's psychology department has been associated with UPSACS, UNICEF, WHO in conducting HIV/AIDS training for the past seven years.NGOs which LU will work with include Lucknow network for people living with HIV/AIDS (LNP+), NAZ foundation, Bharosa trust, UPHAAR and Umang community care centre. On the day, university will organise socially relevant activities like blood donation camps, inauguration of a counselling cell and some competitions for students. The club will be conducting various activities throughout the year with the help of advisory committee consisting of senior faculty members from various departments of the university. "We had a joint interaction with all the NGO partners, mediapersons and members of advisory committee," said Shukla.RRC will comprise students and teachers from LU, colleges and schools. It will sensitise and counsel young people who are at greater risk to HIV, both on campuses as well as in community. All colleges and universities have to set up their own RRCs as per the instructions from the Central government. The psychology department has registered more than 250 students from LU and also students from different colleges as members of RRC till date. The department has already conducted a workshop for all the club members.The ongoing programmes under the endeavour will address the knowledge, attitude and behaviour of youth in the inter-related areas of both HIV/AIDS and sexuality, as demanded by their age, environment and lifestyle. RRCs will serve as a complementary and comprehensive prevention and intervention to support and reinforce similar youth led initiatives.