 ALLAHABAD: Akash was found to be HIV+ eight years ago. He was thrown out of the ICU and looked down upon by everyone. "Everything around me was dark and horrifying. I was on the verge of committing suicide when I met a doctor who told me that I had another 20 years to live and that too with a purpose," Akash says. Today, he is working with Allahabad Network for People living with AIDS/HIV (ANP+).   Ratna, too, works with this Network. "My world crumbled when I realised that I was HIV+. But, I was motivated to take care of myself and work for others like me," she says. Today, she helps patients for their check-ups at ART centre in SRN Hospital and arranges for all other base line tests, medicines, counselling and other logistics required for them.   "Even a slight indication of HIV+ status shatters a person. It is pertinent to talk to such persons, encourage and motivate them. We need to make them believe that HIV+ does not mean the end of life. By disclosing our status to them we give them hope that they too will live," Ratna adds.   The Network works for capacity building of HIV+ people. It provides advocacy, pre-counselling, post counselling and peer counselling as also facilitating health services, government and non-government schemes, employment opportunities for them. It is mainly involved in spreading awareness regarding AIDS, and motivating AIDS patients to take the prescribed medicines regularly and the required precautions without fail.   Even today AIDS is a dreaded word and hence persons afflicted with AIDS are victimised and discriminated against in educational institutions, work places and even hospitals. "There are many cases when patients with AIDS were not admitted in hospitals and we had to take it up vociferously with higher authorities," says Vimlesh Kumar from the Network.   There is a need to ensure a continuous supply of second line medicines, medicines for Opportunistic Infections (OI) and availability of blood for HIV+ patients. We need to make all these easily accessible to AIDS patients in hospitals, adds Mohd Alam Ansari.   "It is important that we move beyond fear and ignorance and embrace people living with HIV and AIDS by replacing stigma and discrimination with understanding and support," says Dr Amitabh Upadhyay from ART centre, SRN Hospital. Dr Meesham, district Aids control officer too agrees and adds, "we need to increase access to prevention, treatment and cure of HIV and AIDS. Let us all be a part of the solution and spread awareness regarding HIV and AIDS." 