 AHMEDABAD: The overwhelming success of jail bhajiyas has inspired women with HIV and AIDS to sell hot snacks which are high on nutrition and taste yummy.   A team of 10 HIV positive women from Adhaar, an agency working with people infected with the virus, has joined a week-long cooking course to learn making snacks.   The classes are being held for the women at BD College of Arts under the supervision of Dr Amber Trivedi. These snacks are made of grains which takes care of one's health.   Instead of refined flour, the course teaches how biscuits can be made of soyabean and wheat flour.   Forget sukhdi made of wheat flour, jaggery and ghee, the women will get lessons to make sukhdi of ragi which is highly nutritious with more protein and calcium!   "Our aim is to make hot snacks which are unique. So that those wanting to eat a ragi bhakhri or sukhdi will know they can get it only from Adhaar women," says Bhavna, an HIV positive women and co-ordinator of a World Bank project aiming at integrating such people into the mainstream society through food!   Bhavna, her husband and son are HIV positive. She says that knowing how to make nutritious food will also help her to meet high-protein requirement of her family to fight HIV better.   Sarika, an HIV positive widow who also has an HIV positive daughter, says this training will help her eke out a livelihood. "I live with my father and have no source of income. I hope this training will help me earn a living," says Sarika.   Adhaar is already into manufacturing and selling of namkeen made by HIV positive people. It is also running a small catering unit which supplies tifiins.   Hemalee Leuva of Saral, an NGO which supports Adhaar, says that an autorickshaw has been taken on a loan from the State Bank of India (SBI). This auto is being converted into a mobile van.   "We will use this van to serve hot snacks to Amdavadis across the city. We want HIV positive women to get involved in projects which are self-sustainable and help them stand on their feet," says Hemalee.    