 ALLAHABAD: `Ham rahenge to dharm rahega, hum nahin to dharm nahin', (existence of religion is synonymous with the existence of human lives) is the catchphrase of a group of volunteers of a social outfit Prayagraj Seva Samiti which has taken upon the mantles of educating the multitudes visiting the Magh Mela about the evils of the Aquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and persuade them to desist from using polythene in their endeavour to keep the river pollution free.   "Undertaking such a signature campaign in the Sangam area on the occasion of Magh Mela would definitely have reverberations throughout the country in the backdrop of the fact that the annual Magh Mela is a reflection of Mini India," said convenor Teerthraj Pandey while talking to TOI.   He added that AIDS was among the major threats for the growth of the country apart from the problem of terrorism and increasing pollution. With regards to AIDS there is a general perception among different sections of society that government schemes and resources are not reaching the common man who is absolutely clueless about this dreaded disease.   "But the question arises that what was the response of the people towards this campaign? Very encouraging as on the very first day more than a thousand people expressed their faith and support towards the cause of the outfit in the signature campaign undertaken by volunteers in the Mela area," Pandey said.   He added that it was very surprising to see that a large number of people including the rural folks sought information on the causes and prevention of AIDS apart from agreeing to desist from using polythene in the Mela area in future.   The significance of the annual Magh Mela and Ardh Kumbh and Maha Kumbh organised on the banks of Sangam can be drawn from the fact that millions gather from across the globe to seek salvation. Keeping this in mind the Samiti has urged the government to declare `Teerthraj Prayag'(head of all pilgrim spots) as a tourist place and construct a domestic airport to cater to the huge rush of pilgrims visiting the city.   Appreciating the intiative, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr PK Sinha told TOI that all efforts undertaken in the above directions are commendable and would go a long way in checking the rise of a dreaded disease like AIDS. 