 BANGALORE: Depression kills HIV/Aids patients faster than the virus within them. The stigma, societal pressure and lack of emotional support from family members push most of them into loneliness and depression. This impairs their treatment process.   According to Nimhans psychiatrist Dr C R Chandrashekar, 50% of patients suffering from a long-term chronic disease like diabetes only suffer that disease. But with a stigma attached to HIV, 90% of patients suffer from depression.   "As a result, the treatment is not regularly followed, and it also increases the patient's physical and mental suffering,'' he added.   Dr Prem Das with Community Health Cell said: "Stigma in the form of discrimination and doctors denying patients access to treatment is one of the main cause for depression among HIV patients. The medical fraternity's attitude towards HIV positive patients, especially sexual minorities, damages the patients' self esteem and their will to survive. So there is a need to sensitize medical professionals to eradicate the stigma associated with the disease.   Peer group counsellors, especially among sexual minorities, are playing a significant role in treating depression. Since these groups comprise patients themselves, it builds confidence among HIV/AIDS victims. And one of the biggest challenge HIV patients face is revealing the disease to the family.   Dr C N Nataraj of Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital, a recognized centre for excellence in HIV and Aids treatment, says: "It's usually the spouse, who get into depression. So we conduct pre-test counselling to prepare individuals and prevent them from getting depressed.''   Medication: A majority of HIV patients undergo antiretroviral therapy (ART). ART drugs have to be taken regularly to maintain their CD4 level. Secondly, as most of them suffer from opportunistic infections like tuberculosis, and have low immunity, they are frequently ill, resulting in dependence on multiple medication for survival.   Since ART drugs don't cause depression, it is the social factor. "We have had several instances of patients committing suicide due to depression. So, through peer and intermittent counselling, we try to address issues like depression among the patients," added Dr Nataraj.   Sahai, a helpine for suicide prevention and emotional distress, receives regular calls from HIV patients who suffer from depression. Anita, who works with the helpline, says: "Depression can be cured, but people around them should understand that it's a serious problem and help HIV patients access timely treatment.''   