 CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (Tansacs) is in a legal tangle for having displayed the pictures of a young woman and her infant in hundreds of billboards as part of an awareness campaign.   The traumatised woman and her now four-year-old daughter have approached the Madras High Court seeking Rs 1 crore in compensation, saying that her reputation had been shattered by the advertisements.   The petitioner, a housewife living with her husband and child in Triplicane here, said neither she nor her daughter suffered from any disease, much less AIDS as alleged and displayed by Tansacs. She said: ''At one point of time, I decided to end our lives instead of living with such shame (brought upon us) by the careless and negligent act of Tansacs.'' The posters, which were put up all over Tamil Nadu as part of an AIDS awareness campaign, came as a bolt from the blue, with relatives and neighbours suspecting her character and avoiding any contact with her.   Her child was also ostracised, and her husband himself slightly suspected her initially. The banner with its wordings only make people think that both of us are suffering from AIDS, and are undergoing treatment with Tansacs, she said. The blunder committed by Tansacs shattered their peaceful family, the petitioners counsel, G Mohanakrishnan and D S Rajasekaran, said in the affidavit. Neither Tansacs nor any other authority had obtained the consent of the woman to print her photograph, along with that of her infant child, in the hoardings, they said.   Noting that such grave incidents should not be brushed aside as a mistake, the petitioners said firm action should be taken against the people behind the incident and made to realise the social stigma and mental agony suffered by them. They wanted the court to direct Tansacs from displaying the hoardings, remove those already put up and tender an unconditional public apology to the woman and her daughter. They also sought compensation of Rs 1 crore from Tansacs. Justice K Suguna has directed Tansacs to file its reply to the affidavit by August 5. 