 BANGALORE: Her dimpled face and sunny smile won Swaroopa many friends. This, despite a few of her friends being aware that she is HIV+. "When I told my close friends about my HIV infection, they did not believe me initially. Later, they not only became closer to me, but are very supportive," she says.   Losing both her parents to the deadly virus at an early age, this Class 10 student not only managed to get shelter, but also education, in a private school. What's more, she has never faced any discrimination either from her friends or teachers. "All my teachers are aware of my condition. They treat me the way they would treat any other children. My friends don't isolate me. They sit next to me in class, hold my hands... like any other friends do," Swaroopa adds.   But not everyone is as fortunate as Swaroopa. A couple of her friends who, too, are HIV+, wanted to change school after they felt isolated. "When we coughed or sneezed, we were sent to a corner at the classroom. But it was not the same with other children. That's when I decided not to attend school," says Pawan, now pursuing a vocational course.   And those who are going to school want to keep their condition under wraps, as they fear being stigmatized. "I don't want even my best friends to know about my infection. What if others also come to know and stay away from me?" says Rakesh, 17, studying in Class 10 in an aided school.   The discrimination and stigma pose a challenge, especially when the Centre has passed the Right To Education (RTE) Bill, which provides free and compulsory education for children aged 6 to 14 years. According to the National Family Health Service (NFHS) 2005-06, the estimated number of HIV+ people in the state is 2.5 lakh. But no one knows how many children are carrying this deadly disease.   WHAT DO TEACHERS SAY?   Teachers and some NGOs feel the children are too young even to understand whether they are discriminated against or not. "There is discrimination, but it takes place in a subtle way. For instance, if they are talkative or naughty in class, they are sent outside, which would not be the case with other children," says a teacher, on condition of anonymity.   Further, teachers say that in government schools, no child is denied admission, but many private schools are apprehensive about enrolling such children. "One might enrol a child but you never know what happens to them in school. In some cases, children are small, so they don't understand what's happening to them," the teacher adds.   JOINING THE MAINSTREAM   Freedom Foundation, an NGO focusing on various issues related to HIV+ and substance abuse issues, says it's still a major issue if a school learns that the child is HIV+.   "Why can't an HIV+ child study in a premier institution? Ignorance and fear are the main factors behind discrimination. Even if there is any awareness, there is continuous anxiety and fear," says Ashok Rau, executive trustee and CEO, Freedom Foundation.   The Foundation is working towards putting children into the mainstream. "We want them to be part of the normal system. How can any school be sure that a child studying in their institute is not HIV+? It's possible to admit the child without revealing the condition, but the purpose of enrolling them into the mainstream is defeated," he says. However, when the Foundation admits a child into school, the child's condition is revealed to the principal and teacher. "They too maintain confidentiality," Rau adds.   WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING?   The government is creating awareness on the issue for teachers and students through life skill programmes. "According to information provided by the state health department in 15 districts, no HIV+ cases have been reported in any school. About 50 lakh children from Class 1 to 10 are covered in these districts. In case any HIV+ cases are reported, we will see that the child is given the required treatment and facilities so that he or she can pursue education," says Dr Nagalakshmi C S, chief medical officer in the education department.   The department has initiated awareness programmes highlighting how HIV spreads. "We make it clear to children that by studying or eating together, HIV does not spread. Above all, we tell them to treat HIV+ children like any other," she adds.   Commissioner for public instruction B A Harish Gowda said it's difficult for the department to detect HIV+ children. "If a child is unwell, the teacher sends the child home or if the child is really sick, he or she does not attend school at all," he added.   Psychologists suggest that it's important to see there is no self-pity. In a few organizations, children are taught how to take things in their stride. "Creating awareness about these children among teachers and parents will make a lot of difference. These children can perform tasks like any others. The reaction from society can dampen their self-esteem. Steps can be taken to boost their self-esteem," says Dharitri Ramprasad, a clinical psychologist. 