 CHENNAI: Clinical trials for phase one of the HIV/AIDS vaccine being developed in India enter the final stage this month with scientists from Tuberculosis Research Centre (TRC), Chennai, and National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), Pune, giving the last round of shots to 32 candidates enrolled in trials.   ''For the next World AIDS Day, we will probably have the answer to how close we are to bringing out an efficient vaccine for prevention of HIV/AIDS,'' said VD Ramanathan, principal investigator of the study, in an interview to The Times of India on the eve of World AIDS Day. The trial, one among the approximately 150 trials currently underway worldwide, combines a DNA and vector-based vaccine for the dreaded disease.   In August 2008, when TRC reported the first significant progress in the clinical trials of the vaccine, it was only a vector-based vaccine and scientists said the results could be improved substantially. TRC, a permanent centre of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), had done the trials along with National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) and International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI).   The prototype was an MVA (vector)-based potential AIDS vaccine (TBC-M4), which was developed by Kolkata-based scientist Sekhar Chakrabarti. The results showed that it was safe and generated some immunity. ''We were happy as for the first time the vaccine had been proven safe and had shown some stimulating immune response. But we thought immunity in the volunteers was not adequate enough to prevent infection, and we saw even that level of immunity reducing after one year,'' Ramanathan said. The current study aims to improve upon the results achieved with the vector-based vaccine.   For the second round of trials, TRC and NARI have recruited 16 healthy volunteers. Of these, six have already received two shots of the DNA vaccine at the beginning of the trial and subsequently after a month, followed by the MVA vaccine in the third month; six received two doses of the MVA vaccine. All of them will receive the last shot of MVA this month.       NEW DELHI: Nirodh condoms marked for free distribution are being illegally diverted from government supply lines and sold as foreign brands in the down-markets across India. The supplies leaving the government's Hindustan Latex Limited (HLL) plants, essentially to help in the fight against AIDS, are spirited away by operatives to private latex factories, where they are put in glossy, erotic covers, rebranded, and sent to vendors in Jaipur, Indore, Ranchi and other places, this reporter found.   When contacted, B K Prasad, the joint secretary handling the contraceptive division in the ministry of health and family welfare said, ''I have taken charge only a few days back... I can't talk about what has happened earlier. But if some people are diverting the government supply, then it needs to be investigated.''   HLL chairman M Ayyappan concedes condoms are being diverted, but claims the leak is not from HLL-end. HLL is currently the sole supplier of free-issue condoms for the government. Its annual order ranges from 600 to 700 million pieces. ''We being a government company, have to deliver the stock at the designated centres, otherwise we do not receive our payment,'' he says. 