KOLKATA: Call it apathy, lack of awareness or sheer negligence towards patients afflicted by HIV. Denied surgery for multiple obstruction in the stomach for almost two years, an HIV-positive boy was finally operated on in January, only to find that malignancy had already set it. The boy has stopped responding to chemotherapy and is now almost on the verge of death. His CD 4 count has fallen really low. Sanju (name changed) was brought to Baruipur's Ananda Ghar, a home for children infected by HIV, around four years ago. Born HIV-positive, the boy has already lost his mother to AIDS. His father, too, is fighting for life in a city hospital. Sanju was first taken to Medical College Hospital in February 2007 where he was detected with multiple obstruction in the stomach. Despite suggesting that surgery was the only way out for the boy, doctors at the hospital were reluctant to operate on him. "Despite being the only government hospital that has a unit to conduct surgery on HIV-positive patients, doctors refused to conduct the surgery. Having seen the apathy of the staff at this hospital, we understood it would be no use going to other government hospitals. We kept persisting for almost a year, urging doctors at Medical College Hospital to operate on the boy. Finally, we gave up," said Kallol Ghosh of OFFER, the organization that runs Ananda Ghar. The organization then got in touch with private hospitals. Though a few were ready to conduct the surgery, funding became a problem. It took months to pool in the Rs 2 lakh needed for the surgery and the boy was finally operated on in Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals in January. Sanju is now back in Ananda Ghar, but his condition is deteriorating.After the operation, doctors found that multiple obstruction had caused malignancy. Doctors, including Mithu Parihar, who was part of the team that operated on the boy, said that had the crucial surgery not been delayed, malignancy would not have set in. "Though on medication now, Sanju's condition is worsening by the day. We might lose him any day," said Ghosh.