 Since 2004, nearly 25,000 people in the state have been tested positive and 56,000 are believed to have contracted the disease. The Rajasthan State AIDS Control Society (RSACS) has been partly successful as it has been able to generate awareness and detected infections at early stages.   "Rajasthan has a low prevalence but high vulnerability for HIV. However, though the disease has registered its presence all across the state, seven districts are in the in A and B category," said Dr R N D Purohit, director RSACS.   "Awareness is still a major factor. RSACS, with help of other organisations, have been working to initiate specific programmes in the high-risk groups and to prevent transmission of the disease," he adds.   The number of confirmed positive cases showed a steep increase from nearly 10,000 in 2007 to 25,000 in 2009. RSACS officials said because of the rise in awareness, cases have increased! However, despite this, there still remains a major gap as of the 25,000 HIV positive marked on integrated counselling and testing centres, less than 18,000 have registered at the anti retroviral therapy (ART) centres.   "ART treatment is not required for all HIV positive patients. It is only when a person (positive) develops AIDS or is infected with some other disease that ART treatment is initiated. Thus, it is preferred that all those who test positive must register at the centres," said another senior official at RSACS.   As the awareness level increases, the AIDS programme is now more focused on extending the approach of ART centres. In addition to the six ART centres, 15 link ART centres have also been set up in the state. Soon, more such link centres will be established so that patients do not have to travel long-distances for medication. In addition, the government has also been making efforts to provide rehabilitation facilities for children orphaned by the disease. A shelter is proposed for such HIV positive children, while efforts are being intensified by local organisations to help people with AIDS.   "We are determined to improve the quality of life of women and children living with HIV. We are mainly focusing on pregnant women and are working for the prevention from parents to child transmission of HIV," says Gopal Rawat, state programme coordinator of Positive Women Network.   