 NAGPUR: District collector Pravin Darade, in a meeting on Wednesday, outlined several steps to make life a little easier for HIV +ve but poverty stricken people in the district. He called upon the district health department to arrange for more regular meetings with NGOs which are helping them out in this field across the district.   At the meeting, attended by deputy director of health Dr Vijay Gedam, Darade reviewed several facilities available to HIV +ve people living below the poverty line in urban as well as rural areas. Rajlakshmi Shah, in-charge resident deputy collector, and Amruta Joshi, project co-ordinator of one of the NGOs, were also present for the meeting.   One of the primary issues which Darade addressed was the strict rules which govern an HIV +ve person when he or she tries to avail government schemes like the Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Yojana. Darade directed that the rules for such schemes be relaxed a bit so that HIV patients can register under them easily. He also said that the same should be applicable for such people's births and deaths being registered by the Gram Panchayat.   On the topic of NGOs working for the benefit of HIV positive persons, Darade said there should be more regular meetings of these NGOs, where their work would be assessed and reviewed comprehensively. He also stressed on better implementation of the rule which states that if some HIV +ve person asks for assistance in the rural areas, the local public health centre must make arrangements for an ambulance within 24 hours of such a request being made.   Darade also asked that any HIV +ve person from an economically weak background be granted admission to the casualty ward within a day of requesting so. He added that an information flowchart be clearly displayed in front of the only antiretroviral therapy (ART) centre at the Government Medical College. Darade also directed that if an HIV +ve person dies in transit or in the premises of a hospital without his or her treatment beginning, the police must register a case of accidental death in this case.           