 PALANPUR: Ten coaches of Red Ribbon Express the train which aims at creating awareness on AIDSmade it's first halt in Gujarat on Sunday when it chugged into Palanpur station from Chitodgarh in Rajasthan.   Thousands, along with minister of state for health Parbat Patel and member of parliament Mukesh Gadhvi, welcomed the train at the station.   Various coaches of the train have information about HIV/AIDS and is aimed at spreading far-reaching awareness. The train will halt at platform number 5 of Palanpur railway station for two days to spread the message in four north Gujarat districts Sabarkantha, Patan, Mehsana and Banaskantha.   "We have chalked out a detailed programme. Four special caravans with the information will move in remote villages as well," said district collector RJ Patel, who is also chairperson of AIDS Prevention and control unit of the district.   Youths will be given special attention. They will be made to take an oath to adopt measures suggested by councillors present at the coaches. It has been made compulsory for each youth who visits the train to bring along with them 21 other youngsters.   The second phase of Red Ribbon express was flagged off by chairperson of UPA Sonia Gandhi, also chairperson of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, on December 1 from Delhi. The train also has a coach on National Rural Health Mission spreading knowledge on child health services, tuberculosis, and swine flu among other diseases.   "As guided by National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) and Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, it is our collective responsibility to provide help to the affected, who are mostly poor and young," Patel said.   "We have appealed youths to come and visit the train. We have also requested the other north Gujarat district authorities to make maximum use of the awareness train," said Patel.   "It's said information empowers and save lives. The detailed project has been mobilized with active co-operation by the people, school teachers, NGOs, panchayat representatives whose fight together against HIV/AIDS will prove fruitful," said Patel.          