CHENNAI: Madras high court on Wednesday pulled up the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (Tansacs) for using the photo of a woman and her child in its campaign posters without her consent and directed it to remove all banners with the photo within a week. Justice K Suguna, before whom the matter came up for admission, also permitted the petitioner's counsel to implead Sasi Advertising Agency in the case.A young woman had dragged Tansacs to court saying that the photo was used without her consent and sought compensation of Rs 1 crore. However, Tansacs told the court that the aggrieved woman had "an ulterior motive to demoralise" the agency. Noting that the picture of the woman and her then one-year-old daughter was still available on a website, Tansacs counsel said: "The petitioners, after allowing the photographs to go public in the website, that too for commercial purposes, cannot now make a big hue and cry that without their consent Tansacs published their photographs in the banner."Petitioners' advocate Rajasekaran submitted that because of the reckless act of Tansacs, the woman's character was suspected by her husband initially, and the child too suffered isolation.The counter-affidavit filed by Tansacs showed little remorse. It said, "Since the woman gave wide publicity to the issue during the pendency of the writ petition, it has highly affected the reputation and image of Tansacs, the AIDS body reserved the right to claim compensation from the woman."Tansacs counsel R Rathina Thara said the advertising agency, which had bagged the Rs92,000 contract, had duly purchased the "copyrighted" photograph from a foreign owner, who had posted it on a website. Tansacs was not liable to pay any compensation to the petitioners, she said, adding that it had not supplied the photograph to the ad agency.The counter also said that in the case of people living with HIV/AIDS, Tansacs did not publish photographs without their prior consent. Referring to counsel's statement that Tansacs was convinced that the advertising agency had obtained prior permission to use the photograph, Justice Suguna sought to know the details on the basis of which the agency had arrived at a subjective satisfaction. She also wondered how the agency could use the picture of a healthy woman on its banners. "It is a serious issue, and the social status of the family could be shattered," she observed. The matter was posted for further hearing after two weeks.