 Botswana is planning to circumcise nearly half a million men to curb the spread of HIV, the health ministry said on Thursday.   The southern African country, which has one of the world's highest HIV infection rates, plans to circumcise 460,000 men over the next five years, after a series of studies found that circumcised men were two to three times less likely to contract HIV than uncircumcised men, reports the Telegraph.   "For public health benefits of the preventive effect of ciru-mcision to be realised, ministry of health is supposed to cover 80% of eligible males in Bots-wana," said Janet Mwambona, a public health specialist in charge of the project.   Botswana's government is sponsoring TV and radio campaigns to encourage men to visit clinics for safe circumcision. "All primary and district hospitals are currently booking clients and performing the procedure," she added.   About 50 healthcare providers, including 27 doctors, have undergone training on surgical circumcision. The rapid spread of HIV and Aids once threatened the survival of the approximately two million people of the land-locked country; in 2006 the life expectancy at birth dropped from 65 to 35.   The introduction of antiretroviral drugs in 2003 has helped slow the spread of the virus. According to a 2005 UN Aids report, Botswana's HIV prevalence among pregnant women between the ages of 15 and 24 has stayed between 35 and 37% since 2001. agenciesBotswana plans to circumcise lakhs in battle against AIDS   Botswana is planning to circumcise nearly half a million men to curb the spread of HIV, the health ministry said on Thursday.   The southern African country, which has one of the world's highest HIV infection rates, plans to circumcise 460,000 men over the next five years, after a series of studies found that circumcised men were two to three times less likely to contract HIV than uncircumcised men, reports the Telegraph.   "For public health benefits of the preventive effect of ciru-mcision to be realised, ministry of health is supposed to cover 80% of eligible males in Bots-wana," said Janet Mwambona, a public health specialist in charge of the project.   Botswana's government is sponsoring TV and radio campaigns to encourage men to visit clinics for safe circumcision. "All primary and district hospitals are currently booking clients and performing the procedure," she added.   About 50 healthcare providers, including 27 doctors, have undergone training on surgical circumcision. The rapid spread of HIV and Aids once threatened the survival of the approximately two million people of the land-locked country; in 2006 the life expectancy at birth dropped from 65 to 35.   The introduction of antiretroviral drugs in 2003 has helped slow the spread of the virus. According to a 2005 UN Aids report, Botswana's HIV prevalence among pregnant women between the ages of 15 and 24 has stayed between 35 and 37% since 2001.  