 VARANASI: Pratyush (name changed), a two-year-old boy who has just started to speak, suffers from hepatitis B, a highly infectious viral disease of the liver. His parents, residents of Nagwa locality in the southern part of the city, do not know about the severity of the problem, treating the disease like any other liver infection.   However, a visit to Sir Sunder Lal hospital at Banaras Hindu University has already changed their perspectives, forcing them to take the illness more seriously, as it could prove fatal for their child.   While the case is not an isolated one, it is enough to underline the lack of awareness about the disease that along with hepatitis C has even higher prevalence rate than HIV or cancer in the world.   "There is growing need to make people aware of the severity of the disease in the region," said Dr RS Verma, chief medical officer, on the eve of the World Hepatitis Day. "People need to be extra careful, as it is one of the regions where infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) is common," he added.   The records of out-patient department (OPD) at SSL hospital, BHU, also suggest that an average of a dozen cases of hepatitis virus are coming to the hospital per day, enough to indicate the gravity of the situation in the region.   Similarly, records of two government hospitals in the city indicate that an average of six patients are turning up at the hospital with complaints of liver infections daily.   According to Dr Kamta Prasad, chief medical superintendent, Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya district hospital, Pandeypur, the spread of infection from HBV carrier mothers to their babies appears to be an important factor for high prevalence of hepatitis virus. Most infections appear to occur at birth, as leak of maternal blood into the baby's circulation. "Other factors like contaminated blood and blood products, including syringes and needles, pricks of skin and handling of infected blood, are also contributing to the spread of the infection," he informed.   It may be mentioned here that as per recent reports of the World Health Organisation (WHO), one in 12 persons worldwide are living with either chronic hepatitis B or hepatitis C. The report also says that chronic infection with hepatitis B (HBV) or hepatitis C (HCV) is one of the leading causes of liver failure and liver cancer (cirrhosis), causing a high number of deaths in the world.   What is World Hepatitis Day?   The WHO has declared May 19 as the World Hepatitis Day to raise awareness of the scale of chronic viral hepatitis infection (hepatitis B and hepatitis C) worldwide and to encourage the political will to tackle it. This year, the theme focuses on public recognition of chronic viral hepatitis as an urgent public health issue.   Vital figures   One in 12 persons worldwide are living with either chronic hepatitis B or hepatitis C   It has higher prevalence rate than HIV or any cancer in the world   About 66 per cent (two-third) of the world's population is living in areas where there are high levels of infection   More than two billion people worldwide have evidence of past or present hepatitis B infections   350 million people are chronic carriers of hepatitis B virus   Hepatitis B virus causes 60 to 80 per cent of all preliminary liver cancers   