 KANPUR: Mohan (name changed) has lived every moment in the shadow of despair and rejection after he was detected HIV positive. He looks back on life-- the years he has lived in fear. Not being able to confide his joys and sorrows with anyone, he has remained isolated even in a gathering. Mohan claimed he acquired HIV when he underwent blood transfusion once.   He is not a lone example. Many patients undergoing blood transfusion may be prone to get infected with HIV as there is lack of equipment at private blood banks to detect the deadly virus. There is no safety to ensure identification of the presence of HIV in the form of antibodies in blood donated by an HIV infected person who is in the window period that spans from 15 days to six months, thus directly exposing the patients requiring blood transfusion to HIV infection.   Poor regions and districts lack facilities for screening of blood supplies and the greed to make fast bucks by private blood banks have created a situation where more and more persons are likely to contact the deadly virus.   Normally, after detecting a negative blood result through Elisa-- a test for HIV-- blood banks carry out the process of blood transfusion. But, if the HIV infected person is in the window period, then even Elisa or western blot testing is not sufficient to declare the blood safe for transfusion.   Moreover, over a dozen blood banks in the city have never reported any HIV/AIDS persons detected at their blood bank to the health department or to GSVM medical college whose principal is the nodal officer of NACO (National AIDS Control Organisation).   Dr Brijendra Nigam, a city-based surgeon and a city coordinator of WJ Clinton foundation of HIV/AIDS, informs that transfusion of infected blood is the most common way of HIV transmission. "It can be greatly reduced by screening all blood supplies for the virus. However, HIV test at blood banks are unable to detect the presence of virus in the window period," he said.   "Commercial blood donors are carrier of HIV. They donate blood to fulfil their drug demands. They collect money and disappear. Private blood banks and commercial donors are hand-in-glove as they try to make a profit by risking the life of patients."   Dheerendra Kumar Dubey, coordinator of National AIDS Control Society (NACO) in the city, said: "People who share syringes to inject drugs for recreation are at greater risk. They get infected with HIV which is transmitted through other drug users. Various drug treatment programmes to help addicts overcome this habit are also quite effective."   "However, there will always be some drug users who are unwilling or unable to overcome their habit and they should be encouraged not to share skin piercing equipment," he added.   To ensure that the blood is free of HIV virus, it should be kept for a period of six months. Only then the dreaded virus forms antibodies after the completion of window period and is considered as completely safe for transfusion. But, due to huge demand of blood, even blood bank of GSVM medical college is left with no option but to immediately give away blood for transfusion after conducting the Elisa test.   Dr PK Singh, professor and head of department, pathology of GSVM medical college, claimed the associated blood bank of the medical college lacked a PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) to ascertain the presence of HIV during window period.   Singh added: "Since we are not well equipped with the latest technology to trace antibodies during the window period, we are using the blood only after conducing Elisa test."   Daily about 100-150 units of blood are being supplied from the GSVM blood bank. Most of the time, due to requirement, blood has to be immediately provided for transfusion after Elisa test. Thus a proper test for HIV infected blood cannot be done. 