 MUMBAI: One-to-one talks about the HIV\AIDS epidemic and its social implications have borne astonishing results in not one but three sprawling slums in Mumbai. For one, the researchers who devised the `talk therapy' module found that over a five-year period, the number of extra-marital affairs in the slums of Baiganwadi, Cheetah Camp and Mankhrud registered a dip. For another, alcoholism and gender-based violence among the men who were enlisted in the study also registered a decline.   Findings of the study--called RISHTA--conducted by the city-based International Institute of Population Science, Delhi-based Population Council of India and the University of Connecticut School of Medicine and Tulane University in New Orleans--have been published in the American Journal of Community Psychology recently.   The most significant finding of the study was the fact that the incidence of sexually transmitted disease (STDs) in the surveyed men had come down. "A baseline survey we conducted in 2003, at the beginning of the study, showed that the incidence of gonorrhoea was 3.9%. However, after our intervention over the next four to five years, it fell to 1.7%,'' said Dr Niranjan Saggurti of PCI.   In the same period, the incidence of extramarital sex--a major cause for the spread of STDs--in these men fell from 12.5% to 2.9%. Over 2,408 men in the 21-40 age group were interviewed in the three slums.   Considering that high-risk behaviour and the presence of STDs are considered precursors to HIV\AIDS, the researchers believe that their study's findings could be extrapolated to mean that psychological intervention is effective against HIV transmission. "The additional dividends for using such an approach,'' said Dr Saggurti, "is that partner violence has shown a drastic reduction, with an increase in marital sexual satisfaction and gender equity.''   The study used narrative psychotherapy to counsel people coming to local doctors with STDs. In Mumbai's slums, given the congested living conditions and lack of awareness, Dr Saggurti said it was not uncommon to find that men with sexual health concerns such as premature ejaculation would experiment outside their homes, thus increasing the risk of an STD, including HIV. "But local healthcare providers in the slums--mainly the AYUSH (ayurvedic, yoga, unani, siddha and homeopathy)--practitioners helped us in spreading the right message,'' said Dr Niranjan.   The study has also shown that AYUSH practitioners--hitherto untapped resource--could go a long way in helping the fight against HIV, he said.   Welcoming the study's findings, Dr Harish Pathak of the Mumbai District AIDS Control Society (MDACS) said they were in tune with the overall trend in Mumbai of falling HIV prevalence rates. "Psychological counseling of the migrant population, especially those who live alone in the city, is the key to reducing high-risk behaviour. We cannot rest now. We have to keep up the sustained effort if we want to do away with the perception that Mumbai exports HIV to Sangli as well as Bihar,'' he said.      --Slums studied: Baiganwadi, Mankhurd and Cheetah Camp in northeast Mumbai   --Men interviewed in baseline survey: 2,408 in 2003   --Decline in STDs like gonorrhoea: from 3.9% in 2003 to 1.7% in 2007   --Decline in extramarital sex: from 12.5% in 2003 to 2.9% in 2007   