 AJMER: People suspected of being HIV positive nowadays suffer social stigma which is worse than the victims of casteism. Such people are often humiliated and not allowed to marry.   The panchayat of Mali Samaj has decided to boycott the family of an allegedly HIV positive patient. According to sources, the marriage of a certain Amit (name changed) had been schedelued on Friday night in the Dholabhata area of Ajmer.   "The atmosphere was joyful and the bride and groom had known each other for the past three years. We all received the barat of a groom and finally performing the last ritual (phere) of the marriage," said Udai Singh, uncle of the bride.   According to family members, some people from an NGO with a police constable came where the marriage was taking place and announced that the groom was HIV positive.   "There was tension when we reached the spot to tackle the condition," said Alwar Gate police. According to them, the family and relatives of the bride were angry and accused Amit's family of trying to deceive them.   "The NGO showed the HIV positive report and confirmed that they had advised him not to go for the marriage," said the father of the bride.   Sources confirm that both parties fought and abused each other openly. "We then decided to go for a fresh test," said the uncle of the groom. Amit, with the relatives of the bride went to t JLN Hospital at midnight and the report apparently confirmed his HIV positive status. "As soon as the message reached us, guests left. If we had known that the groom was suffering from AIDS we would have not permitted the marriage," said Kalu Singh, father of the bride.   The bride had fainted by then. "I do not want that Amit should be punish,ed He is already facing hell," the bride told TOI later. She said that she was not aware that Amit was HIV positive neither had he disclosed it to her.   "We met many times and he talked so normally that nobody could guess this about him," said the bride. When she was talking to the media her family members were trying to force her to register a case of cheating against Amit but she refused to do so. The members of groom family were humiliated and sent back.   "Amit has a flower shop in Ajmer main market and he has had an affair with the bride for the last three years" said uncle of Amit.   Meanwhile, the panch of Mali community called an urgent meeting early on Sunday morning and decided to boycott the family of Amit in every ceremony. "No member of the community would keep any relation with Amit's family and those who try to overrule the orders of the community would be punished severely," said Panch Amrchand Dagdi. According to him, this is the lesson for those youth who try to deceive girls' families.   The medical department, when it came to know that an HIV positive patient was going to marry, applied to the city magistrate to stop the marriage. "We got the order, but lost time while searching for bride's house," said Dr Lal Thadani, deputy chief medical and health officer. According to him, the department never discloses the name of HIV positive patients but in this case it was necessary. 